

===== Page 1 =====

_o
— o- a

BYD CORPORATE SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

Build Your Dreams


===== Page 2 =====

ABOUT THIS REPORT

BYD Company Limited (hereinafter “BYD” or “we” ) have been actively releasing corporate social
responsibility (CSR) reports, so that the general public will be informed of what we are doing and supervise
our execution. Our annual CSR reports date back to as early as 2010, in the hope of showcasing BYD’ sCSR
philosophy as well as practice, facilitating understanding, communication, and interaction between BYD
and its stakeholders as well as the general public, and ultimately achieve the goal of sustainable
development.

Scope of report
This report covers BYD Company Limited. And its subsidiaries, with a time range from January 1 through

December 31, 2020. Certain content may involve earlier dates. Data as the basis of this report has been
collected following our current management procedures. The unit for financial records featured in this
report is Renminbi (RMB), unless otherwise specified.

Basis of report

This report is primarily based on the ESG Reporting Guide and FAQs (Main Board Appendix 27) by the Stock
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, and Memorandum No. 2 on the SME Board Information Disclosure
Business: Periodic Report Disclosure by the Shenzhen Stock Exchange. In the process, we also referenced
G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and CASS-CSR guidelines.
Please refer to the indicator index at the end of this report for how disclosure for each specific indicator is
covered in the report.

Reporting timeline

® October 2020: Report panel established, commencing training sessions for the CSR report

e November 2020: Commencing key interviews and stakeholder research.

e November 2020- January 2021: Finalizing report structure and content for each section, starting to
collect material.

e February 2021 - March 2021: Compiling report, as well as compliance review by internal expert panel.

e March 2020: Approval by the CSR management committee and board of directors

Confirmation and approval
This report has been confirmed by the CSR management committee and approved by the board of

directors on March 29, 2021.

Access to the report
BYD advocates environmental protection, therefore this report is not provided in physical form. Please

view or download BYD’ s CSR report online, either at BYD’ s official website (www.byd.com), or the
official website of HKSE or SZSE. We hereby express gratitude to all stakeholders who provided us with
advice and suggestions in the compiling of this report and promise to keep improving the quality of our
reporting.

Contact
For any advice and suggestion, please contact BYD by:

Phone: 86-(0)755-8988 8888 ext. 62649
Email: bydpo@byd.com
Address: 3009 BYD Rd, Pingshan District, Shenzhen

Table of Contents

Letter from -—————- 01
the President

Aboutus -—————- 03
The Company -——————- 03
Performance and -————- 04
honors of year 2020

Company core values -———- 04
Mission

Partner Cooperation -—- 17
and Management

Protecting shareholders’ -—-19
interests

Distributor management -—- 21

Supplier management- -24
Product Quality -———- 29
and Service

Product liability ---————- 31
Customer interests and -——- 38
services

Caring and Providing -—-41

for Employees

Responsibility to --————- 43
employees

Caring for employees - -47
Occupational health and -—- 48
safety production

Looking Forward -—- 77
Indicator Index -——- 79

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

5 3 Green Operation ani

55. Greeh.operation

59 Green technology ahd p

69 Contributing to the coy

71 Joint efforts to fight agairistithe ee.)

73 Technological charity =

75 Employee social Work



===== Page 3 =====

LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT

Active Performance of Corporate Social Responsibility Means Competitiveness and Sustainability

01

It has been 26 years since BYD was
established. Adhering to orientation of
solving social problems and driven by
technological innovation, it continues to
develop green technologies and products
such as photovoltaics, energy storage,
electric vehicles, SkyRail, SkyShuttle and
LED, to open up all processes of energy
from acquisition and storage to application,
and accelerate the transformation of
enterprises and industries for clean energy
production and lifestyle. It provides a
package of green solutions for cities to
build a new energy ecosystem with zero-
emissions, facilitating a green and low-
carbon development of industry.

When the domestic pandemic
prevention and control was at the
extremely arduous stage due to the
outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic in
2020, leading to an urgent need from
society for protective masks, BYD, as a

representative of China's manufacturing
industry, took the initiative to stand up and
mobilize all of its forces to assist in the
production of anti-pandemic materials such as
masks and disinfectants. Therefore, it has
become the world's largest mask
manufacturer, providing a strong means for
fighting against the pandemic and resumption
of work and production. By carrying forward
the spirit of “dare to fight and coordinated
action” concerning the masks, BYD cultivated
new opportunities and opened up new a
situation by realizing the steady development
of its four major industries of automobile, rail
transit, new energy and electronics, while
promoting the resumption of work and
production for enterprises both upstream and
downstream the industrial chain. It has
ensured the stable employment of more than
200,000 employees of the Company,
demonstrating BYD's responsibility and the
power of "Made in China”.

In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic
accelerated the once-in-a-century
transformation in the world. BYD shouldered a
high sense of responsibility and mission.
Through technological innovation and hard
training, it accelerated the construction of a
major green transportation system that "uses
electric vehicles to control pollution, and
SkyRail and SkyShuttle to reduce traffic
congestion". In the field of new energy vehicles,
BYD has launched the world's first Blade
Battery, which improved the safety of electric
vehicles to a new level. BYD introduced high-
performance silicon carbide electronic control
modules, DM-p hybrid technology, highly
intelligent DiLink3.0, DiPilot technologies,
highly efficient DM-i super hybrid system and
other technologies. BYD continued to
accelerate the replacement of traditional fuel
vehicles with new energy vehicles during this

once-in-a-century transformation. In the field of
rail transit, BYD's first SkyShuttle demonstration
line made its global debut, ushering in a new era
of its commercial application. SkyShuttle is an
extension of BYD's electric vehicle industrial chain,
which can complement large-capacity subway
and medium-capacity SkyShuttle systems,
realizing the coordinated development of large,
medium and small capacity transit systems. With
the corporate mission of "satisfying the desire of
people for a better life with technological
innovation", BYD allowed green technology to
benefit the world, and solved the issues
confronted by mankind such as energy crisis, air
pollution, traffic congestion and industrial
transformation.

On top of fulfilling our responsibilities to the
sustainable development of the economy,
environment, and society, BYD is also an active
contributor to charity. In the fight against the
pandemic, BYD donated RMB10 million and anti-
pandemic materials worth of over RMB40 million.
According to statistics, BYD has provided a total of
7 billion masks to the world throughout the Year,
supporting the fight against the pandemic in
more than 80 countries and regions. In addition,
masks produced by BYD also entered 37 countries
and regions around the world, together with the
"health kit" provided by the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs of China, providing local Chinese citizens
with critical medical protection.

BYD's objectives have transcended the
simple growth and expansion of an enterprise. We
embody a sense of social value and responsibility.
In order to actively respond to China's goal of

“carbon peak by 2030 and carbon neutrality by
2060” and promote the full and effective
implementation of the Paris Agreement to
address climate change, BYD strives to be a
pioneer in sustainable development. The
Company initiates research on the carbon

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

neutrality of enterprises, and explores the
carbon footprint standards of the new
energy vehicle industry. By advocating
green lifestyles and low-carbon production,
and organizing social welfare and
environmental protection activities, BYD
strengthens its actions on carbon emission
reduction through various methods such as
green procurement, green production and
green operations. BYD strives to continually
make contributions to the protection of
mankind's common home and the
realization of sustainable development,
while accelerating green and low-carbon
development of the transportation industry
and manufacturing industry through green
technologies, products and solutions.
Meanwhile, we will strengthen our
dedication to education, poverty alleviation,
charity, and corporation-wide contribution
to public interest. Active Performance of
Corporate Social Responsibility Means
Competitiveness and Sustainability.

Wang Chuanfu
Chairman & President

02


===== Page 4 =====

1.1 The Company

BYD Company Limited (hereinafter "BYD was founded in February 1995 and headquartered in
Shenzhen City, Guangdong Province. The company was publicly listed in Hong Kong and
Shenzhen with a business scope spanning four major industries, namely automobile, rail transit,
renewable energy and electronics.

Automobile. BYD believes in independence and innovation. We have developed core
technologies covering the entire industrial chain including batteries, electric motors, electronic
controls, and insulated-gate bipolar transistor (IGBT). We launched the world's first mass-
produced plug-in hybrid electric vehicle in 2008 and the world's first electrified public
transportation solution in 2010, after which it was promoted as a national strategy, and began a
trend in the international community, of which BYD has been a global leader, transforming the
industry. As of the end of 2020, BYD has entered more than 300 cities in more than 50 countries
and regions around the world. It is also the first Chinese automobile brand to enter developed
markets such as Europe, the United States and Japan.

Rail transit. standing at the forefront of rail transit innovation in the world, with integrated
innovation, we have extended our industry chain from new energy vehicles to rail transit
with the release of medium-capacity “SkyRail” and small-capacity “SkyShuttle” with
completely proprietary intellectual property rights. BYD's solutions are groundbreaking in
China's medium and small capacity rail transit, and offer effective solutions to the mitigation of
traffic congestion in cities worldwide.

Renewable energy. BYD has an array of new energy products including batteries, solar panels
and energy storage. They constitute a comprehensive industry chain with 3C batteries, power
batteries and energy storage batteries. We are a global leader in power batteries with solar and
energy storage solutions exported to the United States, Germany, Japan, Switzerland, Canada,
Australia and South Africa.

Electronics. BYD Electronics (International) Company Limited was independently listed on the
Hong Kong Stock Exchange in 2007. The company is a global leader in smart solutions, with
products in key sectors such as smartphones, laptops, smart vehicle systems and medical
health. BYD Electronics is the one and only company in the world capable of providing a one-
stop solution from the design and manufacturing of precision metal, glass, ceramic, and rubber
components to whole machines. The company has been providing esteemed global clients with
comprehensive research and development, design, manufacturing, and logistics chain services.

For 26 years, BYD has been advocating a sustainable strategy on a global scale with powerful
market planning. Our efforts have been widely recognized by the international community and
have received accolades such as the Zayed Sustainability Prize, the UN Powering the Future We
Want Energy Grant, and featuring on Fortune magazine's "Companies that Change the World"
list. Our objective is to deliver "technological innovations for a beautiful life, by adhering to
down-to-earth entrepreneurship and dedicated innovation.

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

Performance and honors of year 2020

4 Performance |

Annual revenue Number of employees Charity expense

1,565.98 RMB C24 FBO Person 2/90 RMB'0,000

billion

EUPD research Top Brand PV Europe 2020

Automotive INNOVATIONS Awards and Most Innovative Volume
Brand “Alternative Powertrains”

Competition
Mission
Innovation
Company
core values

Pragmatism Technological

innovations
Passion for a better life

04


===== Page 5 =====

Business Operation and Management

|| me
, is |

—!

r

Cc ripete Governance

io ee Ae se |
a A

“yi Legal and compliance:



===== Page 6 =====

07

2.1 Corporate Governance

BYD is constantly optimizing its corporate governance structure, better serving stakeholders
with more scientific and mature modern management.

The board of directors regularly hosts shareholder meetings to report recent work progress and
formulate/execute shareholder decisions, to supervise the overall operation and strategic
development of the company, and to make decisions on operation and investment plans.
Governance-wise, such meetings also provide guidance to the executive team to further
improve corporate regulations, decision-making mechanisms, and approval procedures. The
objective is to establish and maintain a modern, well-regulated corporate structure, to facilitate
investment decisions of better efficiency and quality. For more about the Board of Directors of
BYD, please refer to the BYD annual report.

Organisational chart of BYD Company Limited

[ | Shareholders

meeting

: Review
Audit committee Board of

division supervisors

Salary

committee
Board of

directors

Nomination
committee °

Strategy 2
committee

i

I ny
Board
office
nue resident office

Business Group CEO/senior VP/VP

Decision-making mechanism

Major decisions are first considered and implementation.
analyzed collectively, then reviewed and
considered by leading teams and specific
committees. For proposals on major issues,
the units involved participate in relevant
discussions and are made responsible for their

BYD's top position is that of the President, who
is responsible for planning the company’ s
directions, setting development goals and
monitoring their implementation; reviewing

and approving BYD's major decisions,
organizational restructuring and important
documents. The President also oversees the
launch and execution of the company's new
projects and future developments.

BYD has established a rigorous decision-
making mechanism. Self-evaluations on the

2.2 Legal and compliance

Fairness in Operation

The requirement for social responsibility is
imbued into the entire operation and daily
management of BYD. The improvement of
existing management systems is an ongoing
process, as we constantly seek to meet the
expectations and demands of corporate
stakeholders. The BYD Code of Conduct
explicitly demands compliance to anti-trust,
competition, and fair-trading laws in

Abide by laws

On a global scale, BYD strictly abides by laws,
social norms, professional ethics, and
corporate internal regulations. We have
dedicated intellectual property rights and
legal departments to encompass relevant
affairs throughout the entire organization.
Business divisions have their own legal units
or specialists to inspect and review legal
management and execution within the
division on a regular or irregular basis. An
effective internal control mechanism has
been established, with corporate-scale
policies such as the BYD Legal Dispute
Management Policy and the BYD Contract
Management Policy updated in a timely
manner, complete with supporting
procedures, to ensure that all operations
abide by laws and regulations. In order to
timely and effectively support business
development, to curtail legal risks from the
source, and to ensure secure operations, we
initially set up a legal team for dual matters

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

design and effectiveness of its internal controls
are also carried out regularly. The scope of
evaluation has been expanded and fully covers
the company's production, operation and
management. The goal of internal control is
effectively achieved and no material flaws are
found in the decision-making mechanism.

countries of operation, and prohibits
activities of unfair competition. Moreover, we
regulate our operations with a philosophy of
responsibility and sustainability: abide by
laws, adhere to business integrity, strictly
follow business codes of conduct, maintain
honest operations, and compete on fair
grounds.

in 2019 and promoted the implementation of
a model where the legal adviser has dual
responsibilities in 2020, deeply participating
in business operations, and providing legal
solutions based on demand.

In September 2019, the Company officially
launched the full-process contract
management platform, and by July 2020, all
contract management businesses were
switched to the platform in batches. The
platform can run through the management
of the whole life cycle of the contract,
seamlessly connect various nodes such as
contract review, approval, signing/printing,
and fulfillment, and solidify the risk
prevention and control measures of the
whole life cycle of the contract into the
system through technical means, thereby
effectively avoiding the risk of personnel
operation or fraud.

08


===== Page 7 =====

09

Intellectual Property Protection

BYD has formulated the intellectual property
strategy of "continuous accumulation, flexible
use, reasonable layout, and effective defense".
After years of exploration, accumulation and
development, the Company has realized the
accumulation of proprietary intellectual
property, strengthened the quality of patents,
and formed a mixed strategy for intellectual
property with offensive and defensive features.
BYD has completed the three phases of
"quantity doubling", "quality improvement"
and "patent layout". It has realized the
accumulation of a number of original patents,
the improvement of patent quality, and the

intellectual property protection of related
patent portfolios. At present, the Company has
entered a value patent work phase, with the
focus on patent quality improvement and
value patent mining. Through the work
orientation of the value patent work stage, we
guide the R&D department to carry out in-
depth, multi-dimensional and all-round
technological innovation, explore and arrange
a more complete and higher-value patent
portfolio, and realize the creation and
application of high-value patents, so as to
bring intellectual property rights to a new
level.

Intellectual property rights protection policies

Based on the philosophy of "institutional
policies, procedural institution and electric
procedures", BYD manages intellectual
property rights with a holistic approach
encompassing the creation, protection and
application of intellectual properties. The
system of policies is constantly optimized to
facilitate a healthy development of intellectual
properties. In 2020, under the guidance of the
principle of institutional system development,
the Company has sorted out and formulated
new management systems to meet its
development needs, including "BYD Company
Patent Classification Measures", "BYD Patent

Distribution Fund Management Regulations",
"BYD Company Patent Work Management
Regulations" and "Patent Early Warning
Management Regulations", which have
comprehensively improved the Company's
intellectual property management in terms of
creation, protection and application of
intellectual property. Through the operation of
a series of systems, the Company clarifies
intellectual property responsibilities and
intellectual property goals by establishing a
long-term mechanism for the application,
management and utilization of the Company's
intellectual property rights.

2,215 2,231

i

patents per year
2500 -

2000 - _—
1,640 ———
1500 - 1,254 — —
1000 - ———S ———
500 - ————s ——
0 —_ —_—_s Se

2016 2017

2018 2019 2020

(The above data is the new patents awarded in the past 5 years both at home and abroad)

Quantity of patents

By December 31, 2020, BYD has accumulatively
filed for 25,656 patents in China (12,900
inventions, 10,358 utility models, 2,060
appearance designs and 338 patents in Hong
Kong/Macau/Taiwan), 6,195 patents overseas.

Intellectual property rights training

Intellectual property culture is an important
part of company culture. In order to
strengthen the publicity of intellectual
property rights, the Company set up
intellectual property publicity columns at fixed
locations, and carried out intellectual property
publicity step by step through the publicity of
each theme. The Company opened "BYD" and
"BYD People" intellectual property special
issues to publish its intellectual property
achievements and popular intellectual
property information. In addition, by taking full
advantage of the "4.26 Intellectual Property
Publicity Day", the Company organized and
carried out a variety of publicity activities, such
as essays, knowledge contests and knowledge
lectures themed "intellectual property" and

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

A total of 17,486 patents have been awarded in
China. 1,980 patents were awarded in China in
2020. A total of 3,019 patents have been
awarded overseas. 251 patents have been
awarded overseas in 2020.

"innovation", to popularize intellectual
property knowledge and increase the ability of
independent innovation and awareness of
intellectual property protection.

The Company regularly organizes training and
exchange activities, builds a comprehensive
training system for employees at different
levels, and strengthens the promotion and
implementation of intellectual property
concepts and business cooperation. The
Company builds its intellectual property
culture through the establishment of an
innovation system, intellectual property
publicity and intellectual property training, to
enhance the intellectual property awareness of
all employees.

Anti-corruption and anti-commercial bribery

Anti-corruption and bribery policies

BYD regulates all commercial activities with
the highest integrity standard, strictly
prohibiting corruption, extortion and fraud in
all forms. Offending personnel will be
punished and prosecuted in accordance with
rules. We strictly prohibit offering, accepting or
claiming bribery, gifts, hospitality and any
other form of activity intended to affect BYD's
relevant business decision in order to acquire
abnormal or inappropriate advantages. BYD
complies with overseas anti-bribery laws and
regulations, and must not offer or demand
bribery to local governments in overseas
regions.

A plethora of policies have been enacted to
prevent embezzlement, corruption,
malpractice and fraud in all forms such as the
BYD Code of Conduct, the BYD Employee

Professional Ethic Guidelines, the BYD
Guidelines for Employee Business Activities
with External Entities, the BYD Executive
Economic Activity Guidelines, the BYD
Corporate Punitive Measures, the BYD
Whistleblower Protection and Incentive
Measures, BYD Company Compliance
Management and Regulations on Compliance
Management of BYD's Commercial Partners.
Institutional anti-corruption measures also
extend to partners of the company. Electric
anti-corruption reporting procedures are
available on BYD's OA and mobile office
platforms, providing functions such as turning
in gifts as well as reporting for hospitality,
personal connections and investment
activities.

10


===== Page 8 =====

11

Reporting, supervision and accountability

BYD has zero tolerance for corruption by
establishing a dedicated anti-corruption
department. Reporting and complaint
mechanisms have been put in place to
encourage participation from BYD employees,
external personnel, and any other knowing
party to actively report embezzlement,
corruption, fraud and any other activities
against laws, regulations and BYD policies, and
damaging BYD's interests. We offer protection
and incentives to whistleblowers. All reported
activities will be investigated. All offending
activities will be accounted for. All corruption
will be cracked down on. All whistleblowers
will be protected. All confirmed reports will be
abundantly rewarded.

There is a database of expelled personnel on

— Contact BYD to report corrupt activities si,

tousu@byd.com
& 86-(0)755-8988 8888-62407

=) WeChat account: SjA tbe

And any other method deemed appropriated by

the reporting person

Anti-corruption communications

BYD constantly announces anti-corruption
policies, news, case notices, and relevant
laws/regulations through OA notifications,
public notices, email communications,
Integrity BYD Website, WeChat accounts,
Enterprise WeChat, billboards and other
channels. Various anticorruption campaigns
are held in the form of maintaining corruptible,
taking pledges, signing letters of commitment
from our senior management, quiz contests,
training courses, blackboard news, and “anti-

BYD's official website for the ease of external
personnel to search for information of those
engaged in corrupted or unethical activities.
BYD is a member of the China Enterprise Anti-
Fraud Alliance. Information on unethical
employees is shared within the organization
and those with corruption or embezzlement
records will be placed on an industry-wide
blacklist. Employees engaging in illegal
activities will be prosecuted by BYD.

BYD executes a Partner Access Agreement with
every partner. The agreement stipulates
liabilities for the breach of incorruptible
cooperation principles, which will be
accounted for in form of verbal warning, notice
of anti-corruption, deduction of deposits and
blacklisting.

corruption month” . Employees in key
positions may participate in prison tours, as a
warning of potential consequence. The
company utilizes all tools at disposal to create
a culture, a supervision system, an
environment against corruption, and to distill a
sense of self-discipline. “Vigilance, discipline,
justice, integrity” makes the anti-corruption
culture at BYD. The Group in 2020 held a total
of 450 training sessions on anti-corruption and
self-discipline, covering 621 class hours.

In 2020, the Company organized its employees
to sign for the integrity system; invited police
officers of the Shenzhen Municipal Public
Security Bureau to give lectures on the
prevention of duty crimes in person; produce
the "Integrity BYD" promotional video, which
were granted the "Best Popularity Award" in
the first national corporate anti-fraud micro-

— ‘ae fo

+ hor aay en:

a

——_ mi —
eo SS. — bot

=

Police-enterprise alliance to prevent duty crimes

An anti-bribery management system

BYD is an active contributor to the Shenzhen
municipal and even national anti-bribery
management systems. We are involved in the
formulation of Shenzhen’ s local anti-bribery
management standards, and the review

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

video competition; continue to design various
holiday integrity themed mobile phone
posters for dissemination, designed official
WeChat emoticons for rejecting corruption,
and issued holiday integrity reminders to
demonstrate BYD’ s anti-corruption attitude
to employees and partners.

ry

‘
—_—_eorens

= _—

process of the Industry Certification Standard
of the People’ s Republic of China: Anti-
Bribery Management System Requirements
and Guidelines.

12


===== Page 9 =====

2.3 Social responsibility management

BYD has formed a dedicated committee to formulate CSR management regulations and work plans.
The objective is to create a unified CSR organizing and management system within the company.

Vision for social responsibility

BYD is dedicated to the harmonic, sustainable
development of the company and society. We
are working hard to advance the interest of
governments, shareholders, clients,
employees, suppliers, partners, and other

stakeholders through innovations in
technology, product, and management. The
goal is to be a trustworthy, respectable
enterprise to all stakeholders.

Communications of social responsibility

Internal communications

BYD has always been actively optimizing its
internal communications of social
responsibility. In 2020, the CSR committee
hosted multiple meetings, training sessions,
and interviews to facilitate the execution of

External communications

Since 2010, BYD has been releasing CSR
reports for 10 successive years, fully disclosing
the company’ s efforts in its economic,
environmental, social responsibilities and in
improving the industries it occupies. 2020 has
seen a heightened emphasis on external
communications, with the company actively
participating in industry CSR events. The

Participation of stakeholders

BYD works closely with stakeholders to hear
their demands and optimize corporate
management accordingly. We have organized
many activities with stakeholder participation,

corporate social responsibility programs. We
have internal CSR community groups to share
relevant information, enhance internal
exchange, and push social responsibilities
forward as a company.

Company participated in the preparation of
the "China Automobile Industry Corporate
Social Responsibility Development Report" by
China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers. In addition, it was also
awarded the "China Benefit Company of the
Year" social responsibility award selected by
Tencent News in 2020.

including meetings, events, questionnaire
surveys, academic workshops, and various
work groups.

Stakeholder | Primary Topics

: @ Product

26 3 © Green

Clients and
consumers

; @ Employment :
: @ Salary and

benefit

safety

Employees

growth

‘ e Business

0.

Shareholder/
investors

‘ @ Product

Suppliers

; @ Client privacy :

product and
technology

: @ Employee
‘training and

: @ Operation
compliance

: @ Supply chain
; management :

Method/Channel of
Communication

: e Online promotion
responsibility :

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

Frequency

e Irregular

@ Offline exhibition and promotion :

@ Weibo/WeChat/phone

: @ New product release

; @ Market research

: @ Client satisfaction survey
: @ Client meeting

: @ BYD fans club

e General Manager Day

: @ General Manager Inbox

‘ e Factory Manager
‘ @ Occupational : gi! B

health and

Reception Day

‘ @ Workers’ union event
: @ Review and complaint

mailbox

e Employee training

; @ Shareholder meetings
performance : @ Performance announcement
: @ Investors forum

: @ Major reverse roadshow

e Regular disclosure

: @ Frequent email and phone

communication

: @ Field research

® Quality communication

e Supplier meeting and review
responsibility ;

e Supplier contract and
questionnaire survey

: @ Supplier training
; © Supplier conference

: e Random training

: for new employee
onboarding and
promotion review

: @ Irregular workers’
union and group
activities

: @ Irregular employee

: surveys

: @ Irregular investor
: forums

: @ Irregular roadshows

: @ Irregular
‘performance
announcements

: @ Irregular surveys

: @lrregular phone
: and email interviews

: @ Irregular supplier
conferences

e Irregular training

; sessions

: @ Quarterly supplier
satisfaction surveys

14


===== Page 10 =====

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

Method/Channelof Frequency Analysis of substantial topics
Communication

Stakeholder | Primary Topics

Identifying, reviewing and finalizing topics

: @ Green : @ Government policy discussion e Irregular

: production —! e Input for government standard: We conduct dedicated research involving BYD” . Expert panels formed by the CSR
‘ @ Green operation and negotiation : multiple stakeholders. The preliminary review committee will perform comprehensive
' . » @ Government and ‘ . . . . . iat
: @ Business :  cross-government meeting of substantial topics is based on two factors, reviews, finally settling on substantial topics in
performance : , Participation in government namely “how important it is to the three categories, and make corresponding
© Compliance projects stakeholder(s)” , and “how relevant it is to responses to the identified topics in the report.
Government: : @ Inviting government :
bodies ‘ representative to field guidance
e Product e Participation in the making of e Irregular
‘responsibility : electric automobile industry ;
i Simon i Saneeies Substantial topics identified for 2020
; production : @ Participation in member \
conferences posulatory Tou! Envi t Topi C ‘tv Topi
: @ Industry exchange and egulatory Topics nvironment Topics ommunity Topics
' communication ’ : :
way :_ @ Contribution to industry planning : scien etsies Waste management : Salary and benefits
standard : : @ Cooperating with academic ‘ performance :
associations: : _ institutions : *
; oo, Research, development, ; Greenhouse gas ; Occupational health
; © Green — ; @ Participation in community ; @ Irregular volunteer and intellectual property —: emission management : and safety
: production : programs : services ‘ .
: @ Public welfare : @ Participation in NGO meetings, : @ Monthly “Public Operon conintanes Energy and resource Career development
Ve Wolunteer : and inviting NGO to corporate : Welfare Day P p management : and training
services meetings events "
: : © Discussion of each party’ s ; ‘ ‘
: specific concerns iad Supply chain management Recyclable and reusable Employee rights
NGO and ‘ :@ ii to requirement of
‘ : information : . f Multiculturalism and
community  ; ;
‘ @ Public welfare activities Supplier review and selection Green technology équial opportunity
: @ Business :_ @ Separate meetings and : e Irregular Customer service and: Community environmental Community contribution
performance ; _ interviews ; satisfaction : impact and protection
: @ Specific activities for key * *
: oe and Consumer rights ‘ / ' Charity
‘ : @ Inviting media ane opine :
Media ;_eaee WED nontetenees Distributor management / /
: : @ Interaction over social media : ‘ ‘
: @ Green ; @ Joint technological research : @ Irregular Product safety and quality
é I production : and cooperation : : ,
= : @ Research, ‘ @ Organizing workshops
: development, :
Research / innovation
academic
institutions ,

16


===== Page 11 =====

Partner Cooperation and Management

-Suppliermanagement

oe ARES cay

a

Wis, ee
NOSIS AP san

nn -

—


===== Page 12 =====

19

an

~ Il

!
;

u

3.1 Protecting shareholders’ interests

Since becoming a listed company, BYD has always paid close attention to the protection of
investors’ rights, by establishing and constantly improving a system for this very purpose. We
are working hard to maintain a stable stock price and to provide plans and mechanisms for the
return of investments. We honor our promises and disclose relevant information timely and
sufficiently. Our objective is to communicate and interact with investors through diverse channels,
and substantially protect the legal interests of our investors.

Investor relationship management

Following relevant laws and regulations, as
well as rules regarding the disclosure of listed
companies stipulated by SZSE and HKSE, BYD
discloses information to shareholders and
investors timely, truthfully, accurately, and
completely, in order to improve its
transparency of operation.

Strictly adhering to rules and regulations of
stock exchanges, BYD protects legal interests
of medium and small shareholders. We are
constantly perfecting company regulations,
rules of procedure for shareholder meetings,
and dividends distribution policies as
required by stock exchanges for equal
protection of shareholder interests. Company
information is furnished to medium and small

shareholders through performance
presentations, investor surveys, and regular
email/phone contacts, where shareholders’
questions will be answered. In doing so, we
hope to achieve positive interaction with
medium and small shareholders.

In 2020, BYD will convene a total of three
shareholders meetings. The shareholders
meeting for the year of 2019 was held on June
23, 2020 where a total of 80 shareholders and
shareholder representatives owning and
representing 1,257,118,370 shares,
accounting for 46.0796% of the Company's
total shares, attended; 2020 first extraordinary
general meeting was held on September 8,
2020 where a total of 64 shareholders and

shareholder representatives owning
and representing 1,235,687,884
shares, accounting for 45.2941 % of
the Company's total shares,
attended; 2020 second extraordinary
general meeting was held on
December 10, 2020 where a total of
121 shareholders and shareholder
representatives owning and
representing 1,265,226,412 shares,
accounting for 46.3768% of the
Company's total shares, attended.

Return to shareholders

Improving return to shareholders
and protecting the interests of
medium and small shareholders has
always been a focus at BYD.

To share the benefit of business
growth with all shareholders, we
have taken factors such as overall
operations, financial conditions, and
shareholder interests. As reviewed
and approved on the 2019
shareholders meeting on June 23,

Based on the attendance, more medium and small
shareholders participated in our meeting for the
duration of the report, contributing inputs to company
governance and business operation.

In 2020, 57 groups visited BYD for field research,
including investors from trust funds, brokerages,
insurers, private equity, and QFIl. We attended over 52
investment bank and broker conferences both
domestically and overseas and organized multiple
performance presentations and domestic/overseas
roadshows.

2020, the dividends plan for the year of 2019 is: taking
the total capital stock of the company, 2,728,142,855
shares (1,813,142,855 A-shares, 915,000,000 H-shares)
as the base, dividends will be paid to all shareholders
at a cash rate of RMB0.60 (tax included) per 10 shares.
With no bonus shares, no reserve fund converted into
share capital, total cash of RMB163,689 was to be paid
to shareholders as dividends.

The 2019 dividends plan was executed on August 18,
2020.

20


===== Page 13 =====

)

21

9"

—— Pyne &

3.2 Distributor management

In the current increasingly fierce competition in the automotive market, BYD continues to
promote new energy technological innovations to improve product quality and comprehensively
boost the brand’ s image. The continuous changes in customer needs and the overlapping and
replacement of customer groups have also put forward new requirements for BYD's service
experience. Under the leadership of BYD Auto Sales Co., Ltd., the brand-new "Smart Sharing"
service experience is designed to help its distributors improve service quality and win favor from
customers through personalized, smooth, and caring services.

The new "Smart Sharing" service experience put forward a series of innovative service touch
points and concepts on the basis of existing processes by taking into account market trend
analysis, consumer insights and dealer research, proposing four service experience principles:

Confidence: we guide customers to have in-depth understanding of new energy vehicles through
knowledge building, case sharing, and other methods, to eliminate doubts, and to help
customers make their own consumption decisions

Exclusivity: we give customers more services and support that meet their individual needs, by
establishing empathy with customers

Smoothness: we eliminate obstacles in the car purchase process to improve car purchase
efficiency, allowing customers to take their loved cars home smoothly

Duration: we establish a seamless link between pre-sales and after-sales sectors, so that
customers can buy and use them with ease

The ultimate service is a kind of empathetic interaction, understanding and identification, and
then take action thereon. We expect to bring consumers a pleasant car purchase experience,
make the service more natural, watch the car more freely, and buy the car more confidently. BYD
put forward the sales service image of "smart sharing", pushing dealers to create "Smart and Fun
6S Experience Spaces" from top to bottom.

"Smart Sharing" comprehensively innovates the user experience from the brand to the store

image and to the sales process. At present, it has cooperated with distributors to create a number
of demonstration stores. With elevated sales scenarios, BYD distributors are now able to provide
more considerate services with even better intelligence and flexibility.

Sales satisfaction management

Sales satisfaction is the prerequisite of good
brand image, word-of-mouth, and customer
loyalty. It requires comprehensive sales
service, inspired distributors, a clean
definition of “satisfaction” , a direction for
improvement, and specific benchmarks.

BYD rates all distributors nationwide for
capability and contribution, in order to
provide customers with all-around quality
service. SSI (sales satisfaction index, the
palpable effect of a product or service
compared against expectation) reviews are
conducted on a monthly basis. Distributors
offering poor service with shortage identified
in the process will receive notice for

rectification and must submit a report for
rectifying insufficient metrics within 3 days of
receiving the notice. The duration for
rectification is one month, during which the
distributor must regularly submit reports of
improvement progress.

We are enhancing training and managing
performance review through empowering
frontline distributors. Review scores of
January - December 2020 have seen a 0.24%
improvement (0.22 points) YoY, at 91.49
points. The deployment of sales satisfaction
commissioners has reached 100%
penetration.

89.61

2016
2017 90.63 ]
2018 90.03
2019 91.27
2020 91.49 -

22


===== Page 14 =====

23

‘ oe
h it eee a : ~
aa i ¢ J {~
bf 4 ¥ 2
; ies) io . 4
i
= ’ » % = =
b

PSPSPS e Pelee ee oe Oe Oe Oe ee Oe ee
ont ea Se

—————— ———

Group photo of trainees and BYD executives in the first week of the Iron Army Training Camp

Distributor training

BYD analyzes distributor service principles
and procedures and guides them through
frequently seen issues in the sales process.
We constantly develop new ideas and
methods of service to help distributors
improve sales satisfaction rate. To better
implement sales complaint and review
policies, our customer service center has
deployed resident representatives, and
remotely train distributors through video
calls. Monthly sales complaint rate is
employed as a warning measure, prodding
distributors to actively maintain positive
relationships with customers. Response and
resolution rate for customer complaints have
been effectively improved.

BYD launched the "Iron Army Training Camp"
training program for terminal sales. The
training targets include terminal pre-sales and
after-sales management and sales personnel.
The aim is to build an invincible sales team
army with excellent service and professional

Pr \\\\

ate

sales skills.

The Iron Army Training Camp has assembled
high-quality teachers of BYD Group, from
group executives, technical experts, training
experts to first-line gold medal students, and
the curriculum covers product knowledge,
technical analysis, practical cases, service
etiquette, etc. Teaching was carried out by
ways of learning, training and evaluation,
training a large number of sales elites for the
Iron Army team. They will use the knowledge
they have learned to bring customers more
high quality service experiences.

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

20205 be aie Rate OAS BEANE ad
"LEE Bec 2

Distributor sales satisfaction commissioner training in Changsha

3.3 Supplier management

With the aim of "prevention first, combined prevention and control", we implement
comprehensive risk management. BYD has formulated a series of supplier management systems
such as BYD Supplier Requirements, Specific Measures for BYD Suppliers Review, Specific
Measures for Supplier Corporate Social Responsibility Management with new international,
national, local, and industry laws and regulations, as well as requirements regarding customer
complaints. In 2020, we formulated the "BYD Supplier Corporate Social Responsibility Notification
Letter" to publicize BYD’ s corporate social responsibility requirements to all suppliers. Now
these documents explicitly prohibit suppliers from purchasing conflict minerals. The same
prohibition extends to downstream suppliers, whom will be investigated by BYD.

BYD’ s risk management committee has a procurement taskforce to collect and review risk
information from the supply chain, set risk thresholds, and devise corresponding
countermeasures.

We regularly review and analyze our existing risk management strategies for effectiveness and
reasonability, and constantly amend or optimize according to actual situations. Based on such
strategies, we have tailored solutions for various risks, and perform annual reviews for the
execution and outcome of risk control. By the end of 2019, offline manual risk control procedures
have been migrated to online platforms, to be monitored by computer systems to close the loop.

In 2020, the Company formulated the "MSP-16-021 BYD Company Procurement Risk Management
Procedure" to clarify the risk management process of the procurement team and guide the risk
work of the procurement team. During the Year, 17 risks were identified, the causes and effects of
which were analyzed, and risk strategies and countermeasures were formulated.

24


===== Page 15 =====

25

Number of suppliers

BYD implements procurement localization
and selects nearby suppliers, and the priority
order is local companies— companies inside
the province—domestic companies (including
foreign investment companies)—foreign
companies. BYD currently has over 12,000
suppliers, 45% of which are located in
Southern China, 28% in Eastern China, and
27% in other regions until the end of 2020.

Selection of suppliers

Convention of contracting suppliers

BYD has always adopted strict environmental
standards, labor practice standards and
human rights standards for screening our
suppliers, required suppliers to establish a
management system that meets the
requirements of |SO14001, promised to apply
and promote a corporate social responsibility
management system that meets the
requirements of SA8000, and abided by BYD's
Corporate Social Responsibility Clauses in the
"Supplier Access Agreement" and "General
Purchasing Rules".

Suppliers are required to consider the impact

Selection of new suppliers

New suppliers will be investigated by BYD for
necessary credentials, and record of activities
offending laws or regulations. It will require its
supplier to complete the BYD Supplier Review
Sheet. The suppliers will not be selected if
they don’ t meet the required standards.

The supplier will sign the relevant
cooperation agreement (supplier access

Due to the rollout of rail transit and other
businesses, BYD has been building factories in
places across the country in recent years. The
proportion of suppliers in other regions (such
as Chongqing, Yinchuan and Guangan) is on
the rise. The expansion of our supplier
network has increased local economies and
employment through industry chains.

on the environment in the process of product
design and production, and we implement
continuous improvement programs to deal
with these impacts, including replacing
materials and improving the treatment and
control methods of waste affecting air, water,
and soil. The raw materials or products
provided by the supplier to BYD must comply
with the national standards and local
regulations of the place of where sales are
conducted and BYD's requirements for toxic
and hazardous substances;

agreement and general procurement rules)
before the code is created to guide and
supervise the supplier to respect human
rights, treat employees preferentially, and
protect the environment.

The BYD Supplier Review Sheet is the basis of
such investigation. The Sheet features
dedicated sections such as “corporate social

responsibility” , “safety, information, and
intellectual property rights” , “hazardous
substance control” , comprehensively rating
suppliers and their downstream supply chains
in terms of humanity, environment, safety,

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

compliance, hazardous substance control,
and trade safety. All information will be
verified on site, with multiple provisions of
veto power.

Routine review and evaluation of suppliers

We regularly investigate and review our
suppliers’ corporate social responsibility
performance and compare against CSR
provisions of the BYD Suppliers Review Sheet
on site. Those failing the review will be
provided with interviews, tutoring, and
training from BYD to facilitate improvement.
Suppliers failing to rectify to the standard
within the given time may be severed from
BYD’ s supplier network, depending on the
actual situation.

Subjects of the annual review are selected
from qualified suppliers. BYD drafts a list
based on the nature of source materials, such
as those with high pollution and energy
consumption, like PCB, FPC, and connectors.
Suppliers of listed materials will be reviewed.
If failing to meet the standard, or showing
signs of increased energy consumption, the
supplier will be asked to implement
rectifications, a process that will be followed
up by BYD.

During the sample certification stage, the
supplier’ s HSF data compliance is
confirmed, and the supplier is required to
submit relevant survey forms, test reports,
analysis reports, etc. For materials that have

HSF requirements, the HSF compliance of the
materials is confirmed during incoming
inspection. The BYD Annual Environmental
and Humanities Important Performance
Indicators Report survey was conducted on
high-energy-consumption and high-polluting
suppliers, and the survey ratio was
approximately 60%. If the survey result does
not meet the requirements or the supplier’ s
energy consumption is on the rise, the
supplier is required to make rectification and
follow up with the supplier’ s improvement.

A conflict mineral survey was conducted on
all suppliers that used tantalum, tin, tungsten,
and gold materials. The survey results
showed that the 3TG used in the supply chain
came from a conflict-free mineral smelter
recognized by CFSI.

We regularly check government websites to
find out whether any BYD supplier appears on
any government blacklist. If so, procurement
departments will be notified of such findings
via email, and timely terminate transactions
with the supplier in question by suspending
its vendor code in the procurement system.

26


===== Page 16 =====

#2 BY ge
a 28 i i
aoe

i
a =
=

san

=

27

Supply chain platform

In recent years, BYD has undergone a pivot in
the procurement of production materials,
from price-oriented to value-oriented, and
from local to international. Certain key
components and parts are provided entirely
by industry-leading suppliers. Risk and
strategy management is now under the
spotlight. BYD's production material suppliers
are required to pass the ISO9001 system
certification, and automotive S/A materials
are required to pass the IATF16949 system
certification. The supplier understands and
establishes a management system that meets
the requirements of I1SO14001 and
OHSAS18001. The proportion of BYD

Transparent procurement

As we push forward the “transparent
procurement” initiative, new suppliers
onboard now must sign an “Access

—- “SERRE EB
iaunneel
TTT

GHEE

industrial suppliers (including productive
materials and non-productive materials) that
have passed the quality system certification is
52%, while that of all the productive material
manufacturers that have passed the quality
system certification, and the productive
material suppliers that have passed the
environmental and occupational health and
safety management system certification, is
70%.

BYD is emphasizing transparent and green
procurements with an efficient and mutually
beneficial supply chain platform that
manages supplier life cycles in a closed loop.

Agreement” containing transparent
procurement terms. As a member of the Anti-
Fraud Alliance, BYD puts suppliers violating its

= a eee is: |

— —
ee

“transparent procurement” policy on a
blacklist as the case may be, which will be
publicized to other members of the Alliance.
Employees violating the policy will be
removed, and even prosecuted in severe
cases. The company prioritizes public
tendering, which is to be supplemented by
other forms of competitive procurement. A
new SRM platform was launched to achieve
traceability in key stages of the procurement
process, improving efficiency and
transparency.

The procurement committee and audit office

Green procurement

For supply chain and raw materials, BYD
upholds the principle of “green
procurement” . Under the guidance of the
headquarter procurement division, regional
divisions, business units, and factories have

report directly to the president, in charge of
internal supply chain and procurement
control. Notices have been deployed at
multiple BYD facilities to remind employees to
report violating activities through hotline,
email, WeChat, and other means. All
procurement activities in violation of the
transparency policy, if verified, will face harsh
punishment. We want everyone in the
company to take part in the supervision of
supply chain management and procurement,
so that “transparent procurement” will be
effectively implemented and monitored.

formed a “green supplier, green material”

system. Environmental protection is ensured
in every link of the procurement process.
Each component from external source meets
our environmental standards.

28


===== Page 17 =====

7 (flue dees
Ae mss aD ae ae” a

Wane? i aaa
‘
38



===== Page 18 =====

4.1 Product responsibilities

31

Quality values under the company’s quality-
oriented value, each business unit and factory
must devise its own value system to ensure
that every single employee is quality-minded
and acts accordingly. Quality should

encompass the development of technology,
production, management, and service
decisions. Product, work, and service quality
must be further elevated. The company's
values are:

* %* Quality Value «x +

: People before Principleof : Leave no
Cane Ee : product i refusal : loose ends
Constantly ‘Respect ' Thoroughly Refuse to accept, : Pursue every
finding out ' processes and ‘grasps ' produce, and issue } accident under
customer’ s ‘disciplines. ‘mechanisms ‘any defective : investigation,
needs and ‘ Implement the and pays close ; product. ‘ every unpunished
exceeding their | 5S standard. ‘attention to ‘ ' person of liability,
expectation. ‘Cultivate a prevention. ; any unimplemented ‘

spirit of ‘ ‘ rectification plan, :

craftsmanship.

' and every :
: undisciplined party :
‘ of liability to the ‘
last step.

Product quality management system

Based on IATF 16949, ISO/TS 22163, China
Compulsory Certification (CCC) rules and
specifications, and environmental labelling
guidelines, BYD has established a reliable
document management system, and a quality
star rating system model driven by the
philosophy of “compare, support, compete,
exceed” , rating the quality control of
factories on system, processing, and product
dimensions.

3.5% of all factories have achieved 5-star
rating (ideal). 28.2% have received 4-star
rating (excellence), with the rest deemed
acceptable. It effectively ensured the
operation of the quality management system,
strengthened the competitive atmosphere
and promoted the continuous improvement
of backward factories. All BYD vehicle and
component production plants have been
certified for ISO 9001:2015 (16) and IATF16949

Meeting the
essential minimum
requirements of

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

A benchmark of

management,
Excellent may be considered
management. as a model of

management.

BYD's star-rating
quality management
system, reflecting

a qualified standard

in quality
management
system planning
and management.
1SO9001
management
system has
been
Most basic preliminarily
requirements established
of control are with control.
in place, but
systematic
management
has not yet
established.

(1) system certification, each of the 48 first-
level assembly parts factories passed the
IATF16949 system certification.

Passenger vehicles, buses, and safety-related
components ( lights, seat belts, rearview
mirrors, etc.) have passed the China
Compulsory Certification (CCC).

Our quality control measures include special
quality inspections, in-depth analysis of
product failure, and prioritized risk
identification. Find the root cause of issues,
then improve the system accordingly.
Preventive measures are also highlighted

using FMEA tools and error prevention
methods. Our systematic planning
incorporates IQS vehicle evaluation, with WDI,
PDI, and VDS supporting IQS new vehicle
quality inspection, in order to further improve
design precision and development quality.

The quality control process of BYD starts from
actual products. The philosophy of CAPD
review is further implemented through
systematic star rating and special quality
inspections. First find the root cause of issues,
then optimize the process accordingly. We are
one of the first vehicle manufacturers to

32


===== Page 19 =====

33

implementa “quality system competitiveness
index” , which can be related to the
performance of the overall, business units, and
factories. It has been currently applied in 5S

For the quality of new products, we have strict
benchmarks from design to prototyping and
mass production. Risks are identified through
FMEA. Components of high risk must undergo
multi-staged evaluation from the research

star rating, quality culture and service quality
evaluation of industrial parks.

and development process. Those with
medium risk will be evaluated in prototyping.
Components with low risk are inspected and
rectified by the factory. The quality capability
evaluation for new products is intended

inspire factories to focus on yield and pacing,
so that they will be better prepared for mass
production and ensure components will pass
PPAP approval.

On top of new product quality capacity
evaluation, we are also motivating and
regulating the quality control after mass
production through PPAP rating to ensure
that raw materials and components for
vehicles and parts continue to meet the
requirement of design and mass production.
The measure also helps to improve the
consistency of manufacturing and product

suitability. For the development of new
products, we have created the role of
development quality engineers (DQE), who
are responsible for accountability, the
monitoring of quality throughout the
development process, and maintaining stable
and reliable component quality.

34


===== Page 20 =====

35

Processing quality control

Process-oriented, multi-staged control

The principle of quality control is in-depth
understanding of mechanisms, systematic
planning, thorough execution, full
accountability, company-wide participation,
fast response, closed loop management, and
positive cycle. Employees are encouraged to
report potential issues, replay failure, and

Strict and effective inspection

BYD’ s Automobile Industry Cluster Product
Inspection Procedure ensures that all products
conform to regulatory requirements through
standardized inspections, particularly in terms
of inspection preparation (inspector credential,
equipment, environment, basis, and

Zero defect

BYD rigorously inspects all manufactured
vehicles, with zero tolerance to defects. The
inspection process is empowered by state-of
the-art equipment and intelligence systems,
such as headlight examination machine,
dynamic rotating hub test platform, braking

Vehicle noise test

counter unknown risks through trial and error.
The company is pushing forward automated
manufacturing with the utilization of SPC and
MSA tools and error proofing means, with the
objective of delicate manufacturing facility
management, intelligent quality control, legal
compliance, and meeting customer demands.

procedure), product inspection requirements,
shipping inspection requirements, handling of
anomalies during inspection, analysis of
inspection data, and archiving of inspection
records. All vehicles are sufficiently inspected
before they leave the factory.

test platform, sideslip test platform, exhaust
analyzer, four-wheel aligner, malfunction
diagnosis tester, panoramic chamber, four
pillar test rig, and enhanced road
performance tester. Vehicles are tested in a
comprehensive manner for quality.

#

Vehicle EMC test

Aftersales service

BYD has a comprehensive product tracing and
rapid complaint system to avoid product
responsibility risks throughout the whole
process from raw material sourcing to
manufacturing, shipping, and delivery. For
product safety, we follow the Automobile
Industry Cluster Product and Responsibility

Sound recall system

Our Automobile Industry Cluster Defective
Product Recall Procedure clearly defined
requirements for information filing, creation
and maintenance of databases for every stage,
conditions of recall, domestic recall

Quality culture development

Quality is the foundation for BYD’ s growth.
To enhance a quality culture and create
working attitude that always seeks to excel,
we are inspiring employee awareness and
passion through a series of measures, such as
quality month, skill competitions, QCC rating,
5S exchange and rating, quality cultural

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

Control Procedure, identifying safety
requirements from the research stage, for
enhanced management of product safety and
responsibility related to design, procurement,
approval, manufacturing, sales, and aftersales
service processes.

(verification of information, voluntary recall,
ordered recall), and international recall, so that
defective vehicles will be effectively disposed
of properly in order to contain damages.

corridor and writing competition. We want
our employees to pay closer attention to
product quality and possess necessary skills.

In September 2020, focusing on the four
major themes of “Continuous Improvement,
Strengthening the company by craftmanship"

36


===== Page 21 =====

37

"Wonderful Welding” welding skills competition by BYD in 2020 quality month

from awareness, methods, results and
inheritance, BYD launched a series of
events such as quality month kick-off
meetings and summit forums, QCC
experience sharing meetings, FMEA/error
prevention case exchange meeting, Six
Sigma Master exchange and sharing
meeting, QCC results release and
commendation meeting, Lean production
results release and commendation
meeting, improvement topic of the first
Gold Medal craftsmen, “Wonderful
Welding” welding skills competition,
linked with various business units/factories,
further enhance the staff's quality
awareness and strengthen the factory's
quality cultural atmosphere.

In 2020, BYD's external appraisal activities of
QCC project won 10 first prizes, 11 second
prizes and 2 third prizes. The quality
assurance team won the first prize of 3
“Quality assurance teams” in Xi'an, the

KRONSARER

CAI BRE SRAM
DARMERCR RY

MLR} (T/0A6 10704-2017)

ene, KAMARA

The front team of the Xi'an production
department of the wire harness factory

wonthe “National Trustworthy Team
Certificate” in December 2020

front team of the Xi'an production department
of the wire harness factory won the national
trustworthy team, and the third division"Ant
Coprs'won the title of “Guangdong Excellent
Quality Management Team” .

4.2 Customer interests and services

BYD is dedicated to the protection of customer interests through a holistic system. Under the
broad canopy of the company’ s management system, divisions and subsidiaries have tailor-
made customer management policies and measures based on characteristics of their business
scopes and target customer groups. Our efforts in advocating customer interests is showcased in
the case of BYD Auto Sales Co., Ltd. BYD Auto Sales conducts business under the philosophy of

“service with absolute sincerity” , optimizing its service lineup and scope to achieve maximum

customer satisfaction.

Customer relationship management

BYD’ s customer relationship management
(CRM) platform manages customers with a
holistic system covering key components such
as information management, customer
(potential and existing) management, project

management, product platform management,
and financial management. Customers are
treated with appropriate strategies tailored to
their life cycles to meet and exceed their
demands and elevate customer engagement.

Customers’ right to be informed

BYD customers are informed of the
company’ s technological capability and
product features through technical guidelines,
product brochures, and informative
animations. Customers are provided with a
User Manual and certifications upon product
delivery. Depending on the native language of
customers, those in overseas markets may

Customers’ privacy

All employees are required to sign our Non-
Disclosure Agreement when they join BYD.
Customers’ private information are under
strict protection. Customers participating in
business activities also have to sign an NDA, in
order to protect both parties. Private

receive said documents in English or the local
language. We ensure that all customers will be
sufficiently informed of product features,
operating instructions, and their rights.
Meanwhile, we invite customers to visit our
factories, so that they will have in-depth
knowledge about our production and quality
control.

information of customers is stored in our CRM
and DMS systems, which are augmented with
strict access control. A dedicated information
security center keeps such data safe and
manages customer profiles properly.

38


===== Page 22 =====

Customer Satisfaction

Our comprehensive customer satisfaction
management system tracks customers
through the entire life cycle primarily in the
form of phone, C-CAR and WeChat interviews,
checking their satisfaction about our service
attitude, process, quality, delivery, and price.
Interview results are reviewed to find out the

Customer complaints

Channels of complaint

BYD constantly improves its service quality by
handling customer complaints timely and
sufficiently. Policies such as the Customer
Complaint Processing Procedure, BYD
Customer Service and Communication
Management, BYD Distributor Complaint
Management Mechanism, BYD Auto Sales Co.,
Ltd. Complaint and Internal Assessment
Mechanism and BYD Auto Sales Co., Ltd.
Rectification Measures and Control have been
introduced to regulate how the company
handles customer complaints.

Resolution rate of customer complaints

2017

Presales 89% 93%

cause of dissatisfaction and key needs.
Insufficient services will be rectified
accordingly, and key customer needs will be
added to the list of critical metrics of internal
performance reviews. We want to serve our
customers to the maximum extent and make
them happy.

BYD’ s sales complaint management
mechanism will be gradually tightened in
2020, and other complaints will be included in
the assessment for unresolved issues from
June 2020, and the amount of assessment will
increase. Therefore, throughout January -
December of 2020, the total number of
complaints received has increased 97.2% YovY.
The complaint occurrence rates for 2019 and
2020 were 0.75% and 0.64%, showing a
decline. The response rate for January -
December of 2020 was improved by 2.7% YoY.

2018

85% 86% 86%

Aftersales 95% 93.5%

94.8% 95.03% 94.07%

Care for customers

BYD’ s customer retention activities are
conducted on an occasional basis throughout
the entire life cycle of customers. Online
activities are centered on the BYD Fans Club,
featuring owner’ s club recruitment, exclusive
benefits, and information sharing. For owners
of BYD vehicles, reward points are offered for
purchasing new vehicles, recommending
vehicles to others, posting positive contents on
social media platforms, and voluntarily
participating in brand events. Offline activities
are primarily organized by local BYD owner
clubs and brand-level theme activities. The

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

brand organizes multiple owner events per
year, with an end-of-year owner conference.
Distributors have their own store-based clubs,
regularly inviting owners to monthly activities,
such as driver training or handicraft sessions,
family tours, and road trips. Each activity or
event is benchmarked for participant
satisfaction in the form of survey
questionnaires. Other customer care measures
include birthday greetings, new product
notices, policy reminders, and aftersales
reminders, to be conveyed to retained
customers through SMS.

SHRR RS BRERA

“—

.—

ZO 20k Wis RM Se

AMHR

"Looking for Dreams in Han and Tang Dynasties, Extreme Encounters” brand theme activities
and official car owners club activities

40


===== Page 23 =====

i | "
TURUREREREEEE
(PEL EELERESGERE
—— | |
EREEERE

pol wea eT oh caleaelale we

5), \
=i UREEREREREL_. ~i

* ® = a he Ts ce es 8
.° PROMREREEERE
Sc LN LA

om |
| 18 Satan 10a

Pee
-= 5 BEEEREEESE
= 2

ok a eT

7 SRERERI
Petietiejiel) tt Weal i

— -sraterersrae

met

| ea
~ Tees)

SS eaee)

Mer
Pete

mer |

Lv

re
v
——
Fre,

’

/

i
eS

*

¢

Ee,

FS
:

,
é

efor

in

d

ff,

F
a. ty
a! :

/ =
> D i
ar =
[
\ Sei \
G2
ce ‘

Cérifg and P

\=:Sig he leibatediat = -_ Pe 4 y
tegé
tel at te eet med ed aye ‘he

a ry St
eee ernrneasrt P35


===== Page 24 =====

43

5.1 Responsibility to employees

BYD’ s HR approaches are guided by the principle of “employees first” . We respect every
employee’ s rights, help them to grow, and encourage technological innovation. We are trying our
best to create an environment that is fair, just, and open, for our employees to work in and develop
a career.

As of December 31, 2020, BYD has over 220,000 employees worldwide, with 997 graduates, 171
interns, and 833 disabled recruited though the year to work in BYD’ s various units. About 16.9% of
senior executives are female. At key overseas production plants in the United States, Brazil, and
Hungary, 96% of workers are hired locally.

Facing the pandemic, the Company, apart from its own business, branched out into the personal
protective equipment business. To that end, BYD conducted cooperation with bureaus of human
resources, social security, and employment, among other authorities to set up employment
platforms. This helped have in place a clear information transmitting channel to facilitate the travel
arrangement, contributing to the local employment of more than 10,000 jobs.

I47,575A \ cep

LL 76,704A

O aleAse 224. 2BOA Fie T Be # xtRIAe

15.955,

L 35,776A

O ATéAs@224.280A <@ FRARBE

Equal employment and local hiring

Based on the Labor Law, the Labor Contract “equal opportunity, based on capability” .
Law, and standards such as ISO 9001, ISO Discrimination based on age, gender,

14001, OHSAS 18001, and SA 8000, we have
developed the BYD Human Resource
Management policy following the guideline of

geographic location, ethnic group, tradition,
social caste, religion, physical disability, and
political tendency are strictly prohibited in the

recruitment process. Child and forced labor
are prohibited. We are actively advocating
local recruitment, to create jobs and economic

Talents development

Talent a critical source that propels a company
to its goals. At BYD, we believe “People before
products” , and we are dedicated to the
fostering, training, and competing for talents.
Our “Rising Dragon Program” is a strategic
talent management system that opens up
career paths to both management and
professional positions. According to the
program, employees are rated as green
dragon, hiding dragon, raising dragon, swift
dragon, leaping dragon and flying dragon in an

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

growth. In 2020, the local employees
accounted for 42%.

ascending order. Individuals with outstanding
capability are promoted through competition
based on annual performance review. We are
creating a scientific evaluation system to
identify the best of the best and demote the
incompetent, fairly and equally. In 2020, in the
current pandemic situation, the company
actively carried out online training to provide
employees with diversified learning paths,
meet their learning needs and escort talent
training and development.

Intermediate and senior executive BMBA program

To build a team of officers with global vision
and up to challenges, BYD opened a BMBA
program for intermediate and senior
executives. The BMBA program offered 2
leaping dragon classes and 10 swift dragon
classes, with the class hour per capita of 90. It
established a number of subject research to
help overcome business problems and fully

realize the training goal of industry training
integration.

BYD launched a training program dubbed
“Star of Tomorrow, Transforming in 100
Days” for new graduates, totaling over 60,000
class hours. The objective is to transform
green hands into excellent BYD workers.

Star of Tomorrow, Transforming in 100 Days training camp

BYD launched a training program dubbed
“Star of Tomorrow, Transforming in 100
Days” for new graduates, totaling over 60,000

class hours. The objective is to transform
green hands into excellent BYD workers.

ie ‘19 BYD,

Iivire ¥

| = bs
Eas) oo BP as van na ry am [ Giese BG

Star of Tomorrow, Transforming in 100 Days training camp

44


===== Page 25 =====

45

Job-specific skill training for employees

Within the duration of this report, BYD has
administered over 120,000 hours of job-
specific skill training sessions to over 80,000
employees, and over 10,000 hours of quality
assurance training sessions to over 7,000

J

ff

.. )
¥ ;

Job-specific skill training for employees

Digital learning-online learning platform

In the extraordinary stage of 2020 for
pandemic prevention and control, in order to
meet the needs of employees for learning and
the company's needs for talent training, the
Company vigorously promotes an online
learning platform to provide digital learning
by leveraging the functions of continuous and
stable knowledge management and

f
a 7
/

employees. Over 1,400 have been certified for
special operation duties. As of December 31,
2020, BYD has accumulatively administered
over 400,000 training classes and over 1.42
million session hours .

employee learning management. The online
learning platform has established five major
categories: enterprise category, management
category, professional category, general
category and special category, and opened
nearly 3,000 courses, with a total learning
hour of 4.31 million.

Salary, benefits, and providing for employees

Abiding by relevant laws and regulations such
as the Labor Law, we encourage employees to
exercise their talents and pursue their dreams.

Salary

Under BYD’ s salary regulations, the bonus
an employee receives is closely tied to the
company’ s operation condition, the
performance of the employee’ s business
unit, and the contribution of the very
employee. To maximize each employee’ s

Incentives, monetary and otherwise, are
provided to elevate employee happiness.

interests and benefits, we review and revise
our salary regulations on a yearly basis. We
have management and production awards
such as the President Award (the top award of
BYD), Contribution Award, Patent Award, and
Technological Innovation Award, to be

granted annually to winners from hundreds of
projects. In every region we operate in, we
strictly adhere to local laws and regulations
regarding work hours and holidays.
Employees are entitled to annual paid leave,
maternity leave, and other leaves as part of

Providing for employees

We care about the life quality of our
employees; therefore, we have invested
substantially to provide for them in terms

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

our benefit package. As required by laws, we
thoroughly advocate contracted labor.
Throughout the year of 2020, as ever, BYD has
signed labor contracts with 100% of our
employees.

housing, transportation, child education, and
healthcare:

v
@ Nutrition © BYD production plants are equipped with cafeterias to keep our
employees well nourished.

™

Housing © Dormitories are built within BYD plants. Since 2000, BYD has
constructed employee housing in Kwai Chung (Shenzhen),
Daya Bay (Huizhou), and Pingshan (Shenzhen), offered at
prices much lower than the market level to those eligible.

Transportation © BYD has made arrangements for daily shuttle services with multiple
shifts and routes so that employees can get to and from work easily.
Employees purchasing BYD vehicles are entitled to zero down
payment, and additional subsidies depending on the model. Those
with new energy vehicles are assigned recharging spots with free
electricity within BYD plants.

,

Health care © As BYDconstantly supplements employee benefits, we pay various
social security funds for our employees according to the Labor Law,
with a dedicated healthcare fund for those with medical needs. In
2019, BYD’s healthcare fund paid almost RMB9 million for the
medical treatment of 2,966 employees and provided a total of nearly
RMB1 million in medical aid to 25 employees with serious illness.

\

Child © ByYDincorporated the Shenzhen Yadi School in joint force with
education Shenzhen Middle School. The company is also forging partnership
with schools in the vicinity of production plants, to secure education
for our employees’ next generation.

ka Co) Ea Ee ES

population

Protection of © AtBYD, special care is provided to pregnant or breastfeeding
special females in the form of pregnancy rooms and breastfeeding leaves.
They are not allowed to work extra hours of night shifts.

46


===== Page 26 =====

47

Cafeteria

5.2 Caring for employees

Based on actual employee needs and corporate value, BYD organized a series of caring activities
in 2020 on multiple levels, in multiple forms and channels, to remind employees that a happy,
passionate life is the basis of hard work. We held the singles hangout, basketball match, family
month and New Year’ s Day party to meet the demands of our employees.

Basketball match

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

5.3 Occupational health and safety production

BYD adheres to the principle of “sustained improvement” in safety and development. Based on
the needs of various business modules, we are constantly making our occupational health,
emergency, and safety management systems better by complying to laws, regulating business
activities, achieving standard and regulated management, enhance production safety, and
implementing long-term measures for the occupational health and safety of our employees. In
accordance with the internal safety and environmental management plan, inspections,
occupational health testing, safety publicity and emergency drills were carried out, with a
completion rate of 95% (the frequency of implementation in the first two quarters due to the
pandemic was reduced). In 2020, these activities will be operated in accordance with the system
management elements and requirements, and the management system will be reviewed and
inspected by the third party, safety, environmental protection, and occupational health supervision
departments to meet relevant requirements. No major environmental accidents occurred in 2020.

The Company’ s responsible workplace death number and proportion
in the past three years:

Number of :
apeeet Death proportion

workplace death

2018 2 0.00087%
2019 0 0
2020 1 0.00039%

Calculated as: Workplace death proportion=number of death/annual
average number of staff

Building an occupational health management system

We are always dedicated to providing a better
environment for our employees to work in,
where their well-being is protected. BYD has
established an occupational health and safety
management system, establishing the EHS
safety production management committee.
The safety and environmental office is set up
under it, to establish a safety production

responsibility system, a sound safety and
environmental management system such as
hazard identification, assessment, inspection,
and accident investigation. It actively examines
workspaces and deploys occupational hazard
protection, providing employees with three-
staged occupational health examinations.

48


===== Page 27 =====

49

Safety education base opened and available to enterprise and community

Safety production management

BYD aims to reduce safety management
“blind spots” in campuses through
systemic enhancement and effectiveness
audits. The approval and monitoring for high
risk tasks are constantly honed toward
perfection, in order to contain the safety risk
of risky/temporary/scattered tasks and to
prevent accidents.

We have established resident taskforces to
guide and support new plants and those with
vulnerable risk management, rapidly

Safety education and training

The Company established WI-07-0027-Al1,
BYD’ s employee occupational health, safety
and environmental protection education and
training measures, to organize safety
education and training for main persons in

optimizing safety management from the
bottom up. Key projects must review their
safety management work and exchange
insights, which will be distilled into a
methodology and compiled into safety
management guidelines and plans. We
commend projects and individuals with
outstanding safety records every quarter to
inspire the rest with the power of role models,
ultimately facilitating a platform for the
exchange of experience and insights.

charge, safety production management
personnel and special operation personnel,
implementing three-level safety education
for new employees and establish documents
for employee training, carry out job

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

Safety education base opened and available to enterprise and community

competency training for on-site guardians,
high-risk operation managers and team safety
officers.

On May 29, 2020, the first national government-
enterprise safety education training base built
by the company and the Pingshan District
government was completed and put into
operation. Since its completion and operation,
more than 90 training sessions were conducted
in surrounding enterprises, institutions,
schools and communities, through rotated

Emergency management

BYD has its own part-time and full-time
firefighters and emergency/micro fire stations to
deploy fire emergency resources down to
production sites. Firefighters are well-trained in
skill and stamina, able to identify risks and types
of potential incidents. A comprehensive

training on its internal employees at the
base, receiving and organizing 2,746
personnel. It was rated as Shenzhen’ s
First-Class Safety Education Base, Fire
Safety Education Base, and Pingshan
District’ s Child-Friendly Practice Base to
improve learners’ awareness of safety,
communicate public safety and production
safety skills, and popularize safety
knowledge.

contingency plan is not enough. We have
created a whole emergency management
system of “quick reporting, immediate
response, and effective treatment” , with
emergency stations deployed at risky sites.

50


===== Page 28 =====

51

Continuously improving the construction of emergency teams and emergency facilities

In 2020, key areas will be equipped with fire
stations and fire trucks, and physical training
and business skills training will be carried out
for full-time and voluntary fire brigades. Taking
into account the actual situation of the
Company, we carry out limited space rescue,
fire extinguishing and evacuation, hazardous

chemical leakage, battery fire response,
electric shock and other emergency drills and
develop capabilities to handle on-site
inspection and make emergency response,
continuously improving the response
capabilities of emergency teams.

Fire Heroes Cup Competition

Safety culture

The Company established WI-07-0027-A1,
BYD’ s employee occupational health, safety
and environmental protection education and
training measures, to organize safety
education and training for main persons in
charge, safety production management
personnel, and special operations personnel,
implement three-level safety education for

new employees, establish employees training
documents and carry out job competency
training for on-site guardians, high-risk
operation managers and team safety officers.

The Group has set up a safety evaluation fund,
advanced safety collective and advanced
individuals and top ten EHS leadership, special

safety teams, dangerous chemical guards,
special elites, guardian stars and other awards
according to the contribution to different
positions, and organized advanced safety
evaluation in stages. Through the
establishment of a summary and appraisal
platform, we can discover and accumulate
effective safety management experience and
methods, create a safety culture atmosphere
of “comparison, learn, catching up and

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

surpassing” , and set up an advanced
benchmark for safe production. Through the
setting of Safety and Environmental Video
Creative Award, we can stimulate the
enthusiasm of grassroots for participation in
safety culture, so that more people can
participate in the creation of safety publicity
videos and receive knowledge through
recreational means, improving the safety
awareness of all employees.

From March to June 2020, the Company
organized the "100-day accident-free
competition for the factory", held the safety
production month with the theme of
"eliminating safety hazards and strengthening
the safety line of defense" in June, and the
fire-fighting month activity with the theme of
"focusing on firefighting, superior life" in
November. Through internal publicity at the

quality and safety official account, the
Company published and released 103 safety
promotion knowledge articles including 60
company safety trends, safety tips, safety
warnings, safety knowledge weekly lectures,
allowing departments at all levels to carry out
in-depth publicity and training to create a
safety culture atmosphere.



===== Page 29 =====



===== Page 30 =====

55

6.1 Green operation

As an active advocate for environmental protection, BYD is committed to reducing our own direct
impact on the environment.

The consumption/emissions objective of BYD was even more demanding in 2020 as we invested
over RMB 450 million in the projects related to environmental protection for technology and
equipment upgrades and all new projects had undergone environmental impact assessments.

We reported and investigated into accidents, held those responsible for accidents accountable and
prevented and rectified further accidents in accordance with the "BYD Company Safety and
Environmental Accident Investigation and Responsibility Handling Measures".. During the reporting
period, BYD had no major environmental accidents.

BYD continued to reduce its own energy consumption and carbon dioxide emissions per unit by
energy conservation,waste recycling and reuse, and building a green park.

Energy conservation

BYD has remained dedicated to reducing
energy consumption and carbon emissions
throughout the entire company. The efficiency
of our energy management system is under
constant optimization through energy audit,
internal review, and technology upgrades.

the same amount of power. Dedicated energy
management departments are established at
every level from the headquarters down to
each business unit, manned by professional
teams. In 2020, BYD directly consumed less
energy than last year.

Consume less energy and do more things with

BYD energy/resource consumption for the past 2 years

Resources 2020 YoY Growth
Electricity Billion kwh 400,686.21 415,826.05 3.78%
Natural gas _ Million cubic 9,042.09 8,961.57 -0.89%
meters
Gasoline Million liters 90.03 82.78 -8.05%
Diesel Million liters 26.49 14.45 -45.44%
Million cubic
Water acters 2,819.11 2,940.49 4.31%
Packaging Tonnes 930,372 979,897 5.3%

BYD regularly review the data of greenhouse
gas emissions. We hire a third party every year
to check the carbon emission of 5 legal
companies in Shenzhen and keep monitoring

and improve greenhouse gas emission
performance so as to reduce the enterprises’
internal greenhouse gas emissions.

Greenhouse gas emission in 2020

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

Scope I-greenhouse gas emission

(carbon dioxide equivalence) Tonnes 199,406.48
Scope II-greenhouse gas emission
(carbon dioxide equivalence) Tonnes 3,945,773.38
greenhouse gas emission 1
(carbon dioxide equivalence) =e 4,145,179.86

Scope I: fixed combustion source emission

Scope II: indirect emission

Recycling and reuse of waste

BYD will release monthly its direct impact on
the environment by its business operations
and test drain outlets, all of which meet the
high standards set by the company. Waste
management has always been a focus at BYD.
BYD advocates for classification disposal of
solid waste. The toxic or harmful substances
handled by accredited external partners
contracted by the safety & environment office

Solid Waste in the Past 2 Years

of the quality division; domestic garbage and
non-harmful industrial waste are disposed by
external environment & health organizations;
recyclable wastes are mostly reused, with a
portion handled by professional firms.

Compared with 2019, the amount of
hazardous waste from industrial waste water,
waste gas, COD, ammonia nitrogen and VOCs,
was on the decrease in 2020.

Quantity

Waste Type

YoY Growth

Domestic

piles Tonnes 36,592.13 36,316.38 -0.75%
_Non-harmful Tonnes 270,138.12 335,435.15 24.17%
industrial waste
Hazardous solid Tonnes 39,242.617 29,085.457 -25.88%

waste

56


===== Page 31 =====

yf

Waste Type YoY Growth
Industrial Tonnes 4,573,653 4,003,635 -12.46%
wastewater , , : : .
Sewage Tonnes 11,368,980 14,648,672.7 28.8%
Waste Gas Standard billioncubic 4 939 ¢59 4,777,096.138 3.27%
meters
COD Tonnes 468.7 379.38 -19.06%
Ammonia
nitrogen Tonnes 33.85 -12.08%
VOCs Tonnes 87.11 -3.21%

In 2020, BYD reduced the discharge of all
kinds of waste and strengthened the
recycling and reuse of resources. Specifically,
BYD formulated waste conversation
development plans so as to strengthen water
use to avoid waste of water resources. BYD
recycles and reuses cooling water and

condensation water. We built the recycled
water system in the Pinshan, Huizhou, and
xi’ an plants. This was aimed at recycling
and reusing water resources through waste
water treatment stations and recycled water
facilities. The treated domestic and industrial
wastewater was used to for rinsing the

en Ms 55

washrooms in staff dormitories, industrial
park landscape and road cleaning. In
addition, BYD carried out low-nitrogen
transformation in furnaces in Xi’ an, Beijing,

Building a green park

Pingshan, Kengzi, Taiyuan and Chengde
industrial parks, which significantly reduced
the contents of nitrogen in waste gas
emissions.

using its unique strengths in new energy, BYD applied such green products as electric vehicles,
energy storage system, solar stations, and electric forklifts and LED lights in its production activities.
In 2020, BYD dedicated a total of 884 new energy vehicles to the travel and commuting of public
servants and staff and used 2,851 electric forklifts to replace conventional fuel vehicles for inter-
workshop logistics in the park. In 2020, BYD generated a total of 43.111 million kilowatt hours using
solar power in such parks as Shenzhen Kuichong, Shenzhen Baolong, Shenzhen Pingshan, Huizhou,

Shanghai, Shangluo and Changsha.

Meanwhile, we are raising environmental awareness among our employees through regular training
and conference sessions, bulletin boards, and contests so as to join hands to shape a green park.

New energy

2020% : mibbiNice

official vehicles Vehicles 884 19.9%
Park logistics : ;
forklifts Vehicles 2,579 2,851 10.5%



===== Page 32 =====

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

6.2 Green technology and products Did-p Technology Platform

Green technology

Green technology is our weapon, honed by our
powerful research and development
capability.

We have adhered to the “technology-based,
innovation-oriented” development
philosophy. Technology will change our lives,
and ultimately make the world a better place.
At present, BYD has established 11 major
research institutes including the Central
Research Institute, the Electronic Technology
Research Institute, the FinDreams Battery
Research Institute, the Electric Power Scientific
Research Institute, the Automotive Engineering
Research Institute, the Product Planning and

New Automotive Technology Research
Institute, the FinDreams Power Research
Institute, and the FinDreams Science and
Technology Research Institute, Commercial
Vehicle Research Institute, Light Rail Transit
Research Institute, Semiconductor Research
Institute, covering materials research,
electronics, batteries, automobiles, new
energy, rail transit, semiconductors and other
fields. Currently, the Group has more than
30,000 R&D engineers engaged in the
development of various technologies, striving
to push the entire industry forwar.

DM-p has two major power architectures: dual-motor with four-wheel drive and three-
motor with four-wheel drive. The dual-motor and four-wheel drive architecture consists of
the engine, transmission, PO motor, rear three-in-one motor, power battery system, two-in-
one core power assembly and other core spare parts. In terms of component composition,
the three-motor with four-wheel drive configuration adds a front motor. DM-p is now
installed in a variety of models including the new generation of Tang DM, Han DM, Song Pro
DM, Song Max DM, Qin Pro DM, etc.

The biggest highlight of the DM-p architecture is the addition of the PO motor. The PO motor
with high voltage, high power and strong power retention capability has the four functions
of intelligent power generation, intelligent start and stop, rapid acceleration assistance and
auxiliary gear shifting, which help the vehicle achieve a qualitative leap in terms of power,
economy, smoothness and quietness.

In terms of power, the DM-p system is comparable to a modern V8 engine, capable of
accelerating from 0-100km/h in just 4.3s; in terms of economy, when commuting to work, it
can travel in pure EV mode with zero fuel consumption. Even at a low state of charge, the
fuel consumption is still better than that of similarly sized models. Ride comfort is excellent,
especially in pure EV mode. While driving in HEV mode there is no shuttering when starting
and shifting thanks to the PO motor. Under the newly upgraded architecture, the DM-p
system is well ahead of its peers, creating a library-level quiet space for users.

New Energy Vehicle Starting Iron Battery and Management System

The lead-acid batteries used for starting conventional vehicles have a low energy density,
large volume and heavy weight, and a short life, apart from the lead content that is very
harmful to human health and the environment.

BYD created the world’ s first lithium iron phosphate starter battery and energy
management system, addressing the aforementioned limitations with:

> Over 3,000 cell charging/discharging cycles, with a theoretical life of more than 10 years,
with a lifelong warranty and free maintenance service.

> The LBMS features battery charge/discharge management for enhanced safety. The
smart charging feature automatically recharges the battery when its power level is low,
effectively avoiding frustrations when the customer forgets to manually recharge.

Manufactured to RoHS standards. A green product with no harmful substances, hence
contributing to the world.

; > Small size and light weight, versatile in deployment.
This technology has been applied to multiple BYD models since November 2013.



===== Page 33 =====

DM-I Super Hybrid

DM-I Super Hybrid is a hybrid technology with electricity as the main driver. It features an
electric hybrid architecture with a high-power electric motor, and a large-capacity power
battery which is supplemented by a gasoline engine, transforming the design architecture
of traditional hybrid technology which mainly relies gasoline. The DM-i super hybrid will
be installed in multiple models such as BYD Qin Plus DM-i, Song Plus DM-i and Tang DM-i.

The core components of the DM-i Super Hybrid platform include: The Xiaoyun 1.5L high-
efficiency engine, achieving the highest thermal efficiency of any mass produced engine
on the market at 43.03%. The Xiaoyun turbocharged 1.5Ti high-efficiency engine achieves
a thermal efficiency of 40%. An ultra-high-efficiency EHS electric hybrid system and the
world's first DM-i super hybrid special power type, AC and DC charger and other core
components. Each system has been 100% developed by BYD, including the vehicle,
engine, motor, battery and other corresponding control systems. The comprehensive
independent research and development capabilities of BYD empower the DM-i super
hybrid.

The DM-i super hybrid system consumes as little as 3.8 liters per hundred kilometers,
which is nearly indistinguishable to the driving experience of a pure EV, and the 0-
100km/h acceleration is 2-3 seconds faster than that of a gasoline powered vehicle of the
same level. With ultra-low fuel consumption, quietness, smoothness, and excellent power,
the vehicle performance is almost perfect.

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

Blade Battery Technology

The Blade Battery is a new generation of lithium iron phosphate battery launched by BYD
(FinDreams Battery), with more than 500 patents. It has seven major advantages: super low
cost, super safety, super range, super service life, super strength, super power, and super
low temperature performance, referred to as "6S".

In March 2020, the Blade Battery was launched as the only battery in the world that can
pass the nail penetration test (known as the "Mount Everest" of battery tests in the power
battery industry). Blade Batteries put an end to the safety shortcomings of new energy
vehicles and set up a safety benchmark for new energy vehicles.

The Blade Battery is the culmination of BYD’ s nearly 20 years of R&D and application
experience in the field of power batteries, and integrates BYD’ s full industrial chain
advantages from battery raw material production to power battery pack manufacturing. It is
the world’ s first power battery technology with high integration efficiency, high safety and
full protection.

This technology breaks through the constraints of the traditional drawing/extrusion
process, and achieved a breakthrough in the ultra-thin aluminum shell welding technology,
and successfully developed ultra-long and ultra-thin aluminum shell blade battery with an
aspect ratio of 10:1 and a thickness of 0.3mm, breaking the module concept of traditional
battery systems. We use the unique aspect ratio characteristics of the Blade Battery to
realize the close arrangement of the ultra-long size cells and obtain a volume integration
efficiency of more than 60%.

Compared with the 40% volume efficiency of a traditional battery system, the volume
integration efficiency of the Blade Battery increased by 50%, making the pure electric
vehicle equipped with a lithium iron phosphate system to record a cruising range of more
than 600km. At the same time, based on the inherent safety advantages of lithium iron
phosphate, the compact array design, multi-functional integrated envelope design and
system sandwich structure design of Blade Batteries guarantee the safety of the power
battery system from multiple levels and multiple dimensions.

This technology has been applied to multiple BYD models such as BYD Han EV, DiDi D1, and
the BYD V3 pure electric van, since July 2020.

'
'
‘
'
‘
'
‘
‘
‘
‘
‘
'
‘
'
'
'
‘
'
‘
‘
t
'
'
‘
'
‘
'
4
‘
'
‘
‘
‘
‘
'
'
'
‘
'
‘
‘
t
'
'
‘
'
‘
'
‘
‘
‘
‘
‘
‘
‘
‘
'
'
‘
'
‘
'
t
'
'
‘
'
‘
'
‘
'
‘
‘
'
‘
‘
'
'
'
'
‘
‘
'
t
‘

62


===== Page 34 =====

63

Sustainability products

We strive to provide our customers with
products and solutions with better efficiency
and fuel economy, while reducing carbon
emissions to protect the environment. Our
requirements for environmental protection
are applied throughout the entire product
life cycle, including development,

Energy Storage Products

manufacturing, delivery, usage, and
aftersales services. Our objective is to
transform the traditional norm of power
consumption with our green products and
revitalize cities by developing effective
solutions to air pollution and traffic
congestion.

BYD is a world leader in energy storage solutions. Supported by an outstanding battery

business, we are focusing on the R&D, design, integration and services of energy storage
systems. We own core intellectual properties in independently developed high efficiency
two-way converters and battery management systems. Since entering the field of energy
storage in 2008, we have delivered over 1GWh of energy storage projects in almost 300 cities
around the world, with a perfect track record of zero accidents.

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

BYD Energy Storage launched the BYD Cube T28, a new generation of
grid-level energy storage product

In August 2020, BYD Energy Storage launched the BYD Cube T28, a new
generation of grid-level energy storage product, and successfully won the

"Taiwatt Diamond Award" selected by the 14th SNEC Top Ten Highlights.

xz £

BEeOntLeqeed

MMSOCTERUNE, ROHARA “oes
"NIC +A RAW A”

KA 4S ye

CAE. Beverages,

*Oe” anew

BYD won the 2020 Most Influential Enterprise Award in China's Energy

Storage Industry
On September 24, 2020, the 10th China International Energy Storage

Conference opened in Shenzhen. After 12 years of accumulation of energy
storage technology and global energy storage zero-fire deployment
experience, BYD Energy Storage has actively promoted the global energy
transformation and won the "2020 China Energy Storage Industry Most
Influential Enterprise" award at this conference.

BYD won the top 50 new energy technology innovation enterprises in 2020
On November 27, 2020, the "2020 Energy Transition Forum and the 10th
Global Top 500 New Energy Enterprises Summit" jointly organized by Shanxi
Energy Administration and China Energy News was grandly held in Taiyuan,
Shanxi Province. The summit officially announced the "Top 50 New Energy
Technology Innovation Enterprises 2020" list where BYD Company Limited
was included.

eters
PULOUA he 5098

64


===== Page 35 =====

65

Solar products

Solar energy is one of BYD Group's important operations in the field of new energy.
Together with electric vehicles and energy storage, it has built BYD's green dream. BYD
Solar has a complete industrial chain, covering silicon ingots, silicon wafers, cells, modules,
and smart photovoltaic system solutions, integrating leading technologies in the field of
new energy, converting light energy into more electricity efficiently, promoting the use of
clean energy, in an effort to promote green development.

When we are confronted with a series of crisis such as energy shortage, ecological
destruction, environmental pollution, etc., BYD actively fulfills its social responsibilities, and
responds to the global call for the construction of clean and efficient energy systems. With
scientific and technological innovation and practical actions, BYD makes active
contributions to global climate governance and sustainable development. By actively

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

contributing to the realization of sustainable development, we make new effoF in response
to global climate change, providing society with sustainable and clean energy, while
protecting the beautiful homeland on which mankind depends for survival.

England Energy project

Australia Energy project

New Energy Vehicles

New energy vehicles are BYD’ s answer to global pollution. As of now, BYD products have
covered the entire market, including 7 conventional transportation areas (passenger
vehicles, taxis, busses, coaches, logistics vehicles, construction vehicles, sanitation vehicles)
and 4 specialized areas (warehouses, harbors, airports and mining).

In 2020, BYD’ s sales of new energy passenger vehicles reached 179,054 units (roughly
48,084 PHEVs, 130,970 EVs) with a total production and sales volume of 0.91 million units.
With the outbreak of COVID-19 and the background of further intensified market
competition, BYD managed to secure the first place in domestic new energy passenger
vehicle sales .

In 2020, the Han and Tang dual flagships continue to make efforts to lead BYD's new energy
vehicles upmarket. Since its launch in July, BYD Han’ s sales volume has continued to rise,
exceeding 10,000 units for consecutive months. It sold 40,556 units in just six months,
ranking among the top four in China’ s large C-class vehicle sales, which set a new record
in China’ s automobile industry. The new generation Tang DM sold 21,225 units
throughout the year, ranking first among plug-in hybrid B-segment SUVs, with a market
share of 56.1% in the plug-in hybrid B-segment SUV.

66


===== Page 36 =====

4
y

+ hs ——

Rail business

In order to seek solutions to traffic congestion in terms of rail transit, BYD stretched
its strengths in integration innovation by extending the electric vehicle industry
chain to the rail transit field. BYD devoted 5 years to develop the medium-capacity
straddle type monorail “SkyRail” , and 7 years for the small-capacity rail
transportation “SkyShuttle” . “SkyRail” and SkyShuttle use 100% intellectual
property and the core technology of the whole industrial chain, contributing to
easing urban traffic congestion worldwide. They are both designed with an
unmanned driving system, a comprehensive dispatching system which highly
integrates multiple features, and facial recognition among other high-tech features.
Featuring high safety, high intelligence, high adaption, high standard design, low

construction cost and fast construction, they can provide passengers with more
intelligent, convenient travel experiences and contribute to the upgrading of urban
traffic networks. In October 2016, BYD launched SkyRail, announcing its march into
the rail transit field. In August 2017, the ever first straddle type monorail

“SkyRail” line was put into operation in Yinchuan. BYD’ s SkyRail and SkyShuttle
were invited to the 2019 Spring Festival Gala, showing China’ s technological fruits
and “future city” to the rest of the world. In May 2020, the Chongqing SkyShuttle
demonstration line was launched worldwide, ushering in a new chapter in the
world’ s rail transit industry. So far, BYD has reached strategic cooperation with
multiple cities in terms of SkyRail and SkyShuttle, with a promising future.



===== Page 37 =====

Joint efforts to fig



===== Page 38 =====

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

7AUNEPIA MG th hie—RteAOs

7.1 Joint efforts to fight against the pandemic i rat

Hebi MS
SiS F 202001 A288 (AbHeae

At a time when the domestic anti-pandemic efforts were at the most difficult stage with the most Relying on strong R&D capabilities and manufacturing RE ORULEen er mane ee
urgent demand for protective masks, BYD always stayed with the world and donated 10 million RMB strengths, BYD ran against the clock to produce masks and Ree cere eee
for the pandemic fight. Furthermore, the President led 100,000 staff to produce protective masks for disinfection gels to support more than 80 countries,

the fight. Amazingly, BYD produced blueprints in 3 days, equipment in 7 days, and products in 10 donating a total of more than 40 million RMB worth of

days, making BYD the world's largest mask manufacturer in 24 days, with the daily maximum output supplies worldwide.

up to 100 million masks, strongly supporting the fight and resumption of production.

| 4A ES: 202001 29094458739907957587795968
.

RRM a: awe 4

MALES BSA B

71 72


===== Page 39 =====

7.2 Technological charity

BYD donated funds to set up the BYD Charity Foundation in 2010. Since its establishment,
adhering to the concept of “Technological Charity", the foundation has used technology to
help poverty-stricken areas, and technical products to provide disaster relief, to support
educational development and help disadvantaged groups in society. It lightens our dreams with
a single spark. In 2020, the BYD Charity Foundation donated a total of 21.90 million RMB for

public welfare programs.

Total donation in five years (Unit: RMB’ 0,000)

190

1,112

0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 1600 1800 2000 2200

BYD has used funds to help poverty-stricken
areas, introduced technology and developed
industries in such areas to bring vitality to
impoverished counties and villages once
again. So far, BYD has offered targeted

ol —
be Se id $5 SS Th

assistance to 20 impoverished counties in 9
provinces, cities and regions. In 2020, BYD
offered pairing assistance to two rural areas in
Guizhou and jointly built a beautiful village.

To support education, BYD has focused on
three major areas: school aid, scholarships,
and improvement of educational facilities. It
has benefited more than 150 schools in 23
provinces, cities and regions across the
country, helping nearly 30,000 students realize
their dreams for the future. In 2020, BYD’ s
Dream Realization Action Scholarship
supported 116 poor students with a total of

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

scholarships of 820,000 RMB, donated 2
million RMB to Peking University to establish
the “BYD Education Development Fund” ,
and donated 1.5 million RMB for the
construction of a science and technology
museum for Wuwei County. BYD’ s new
dream stadium project represents the
establishment of new stadiums for six poor
schools with donations from BYD.

74


===== Page 40 =====

75

In addition, BYD pays attention to special
groups with ongoing focus on children with
cerebral palsy. So far, it has supported a total

7.3 Employee social work

of 871 families with children diagnosed with
cerebral palsy.

PonnG-2F

SP 992258 —r ens h

GET , AAME—R
eB CBN HRUARE RK

Omak Ge | 882 AMAR EeROnE

BYD has set up volunteer stations in 11 mature industrial parks and living areas across the country,
with a total of 3,969 registered volunteers and 36,045.45 hours of volunteer service. In 2020, under
the leadership of the Group, BYD’ s volunteers actively participated in the fight against the
pandemic, cared for the community, supported education, advocated environmental protection,

and made a contribution to a better society.

Supporting anti-pandemic efforts

During the pandemic, BYD volunteers actively
assisted the Group in anti-pandemic matters
and participated in the delivery of donated
anti-pandemic materials. Volunteers from the

Shenzhen Pingshan Headquarters delivered
donated anti-pandemic materials to Hubei
and sent anti-pandemic materials to five
hospitals in Shenzhen's developed areas.

Volunteers assisting in the delivery of donated anti-pandemic materials to Wuhan

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

Advocating environmental protection

In response to the country's call to achieve
carbon neutrality, BYD volunteers launched an
environmental protection operation, named
“Clean Mountain, Clean Beach” , to advocate
environmental protection. In December 2020,
BYD volunteers from Shenzhen Pingshan
Station, Shenzhen Baolong Station, Shenzhen
Kengzi Station, Shenzhen Kuiyong Station and
Huizhou Station jointly participated in the

“Clean Beach” activity in Shenzhen
Mangrove nature reserve, marking the opening
of environmental protection activities from
BYD volunteers. In addition, BYD volunteers
carried out thematic activities, and advocated
public policies of no littering and no wasting
food in the industrial park, to encourage more
people to participate in environmental
protection and reduce pollution.

76


===== Page 41 =====

Looking Forward

2020 marks BYD’ s 26th year in business. We are marching bravely toward a
future of innovation. Our corporate mission is to make technological
innovations for a better life, and that will be our guideline as we actively
perform our corporate social responsibility.

For the future, we will uphold our faith of building a sustainable society with
sustainable industry. We fight for everyone’ s dream of a better life.

¥
a
=
=
—
=
—
-_—
_
=
=
-_
=>
a
=
-—
_
T
2£
a
—
SF
=
=
=
a

:

Ny

uy

an

iN

MUGEEEA lun
ee | | | |

ASALLL

PITTI UCT
: - 4a)
™

~~
as <s4

i <a

Alii i |

VA vs

5
-
SZ!
ae

bho bbb,

a


===== Page 42 =====

Indicator Index

Indicator index

Environmental, Social
and Governance

GRI Sustainability Reporting Guide issued

CeuEN Reporting Guidelines(G4) by the Hong Kong
Stock Exchange
G4-23, G4-28, G4-29,
About this report G4-30, G4-31, G4-32,
G4-48,
Message from the president G4-1,

About us

The company

Operation and Management

Law-abiding and
Compliance

Social responsibility
management

Supplier management

Product and quality service

j i }
| |
Perr: Peer rrr! Perr rrr Terr errr

G4-3, G4-4, G4-5, G4-6,
G4-7, G4-8, G4-9,64-15,
G4-16 G4-34, G4-56,

G4-55,G4-EC1,G4-57,

B7
G4-58, G4-S03,G4-S04, B6.3, B7.2
G4-SO5

G4-15, G4-16, G4-24,

G4-25, G4-26,

G4-S09,G4-SO10, : BS
G4-12,G4-LA14,G4-HR10; ——-BS.2,

Product Liability

79

G4-PR1 :  B6.1,B6.3,B6.4,B6.5

GRI Sustainability

Contents Reporting Guidelines(G4)

Customer interests

and services G4-PR5,G4-PR8

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

Environmental, Social
and Governance
Reporting Guide issued
by the Hong Kong
Stock Exchange

B6
B6.2, B6.5

Caring and Protection for Employees

G4-9, G4-10, G4-EC3, B1, B2, B3, B4
G4-LA1,G4-LA9, B1.1,
Employee Responsibility G4-LA10, G4-LA11, B2.1,B2.3,
G4-LA16,G4-HR2, B3.1, B3.2
G4-HR7, B4.1
Occupational and
health safety Seathy

Green operation and production

G4-EN1, G4-EN3,
G4-EN6, G4-EN8,
G4-EN15, G4-EN16,
G4-EN19, G4-EN21,
G4-EN22, G4-EN23,
G4-EN31,G4-HR9

G4-EN30
G4-EN30

Green operation

Green technology and —: G4-EC8, G4-EN7,
products G4-EN27,

Contributing to

the community

Al,A2,A3

A1.1, Al.2, A1.3,
Al.4,A1.5,A1.6,
A2.1, A2.2, A2.3,
A2.4, A2.5,A3.1

B6

B8
B8.1, B8.2

80


===== Page 43 =====

81

BAR hi

Dear reader,

To make our CSR reports even better, we are grateful for your advice and suggestions.

Please kindly fill out the following questionnaire and send it back to us.

Mailing address: 3009 BYD Rd, Pingshan District, Shenzhen Postcode: 518118

Your Information

Name

Employer

Position

Telephone

Fax

Email

Multiple choice questions(Please check the corresponding box)

1.This report has provided a full and accurate view of the major impacts of the Company
on the economy, society and environment.

CiVery good (Good [Fair LJBad [Very bad

2. This report provides response to stakeholders’ concerns and disclosures.

LiVery good LiGood (Fair (Bad Very bad

3. The information, indicators and data disclosed in this report are clear, accurate and

complete.

LiVery good (lGood (Fair (Bad L1Very bad

4. The readability of this report, i.e., the logic, content design, language and layout

design is:

LiVery good LiGood (Fair LIBad LiVery bad

Open questions
1. Which part of this report are you most satisfied with?

2. What further information would you like to have?

3. Do you have any suggestion for our future CSR report?

2020 BYD Corporate Social Responsibility Report

82


===== Page 44 =====

BYD COMPANY LIMITED

No.3009, BYD Road, Pingshan, Shenzhen, 518118, P.R.China
Tel: +86-755-89888888 Fax: +86-755-84202222
Http: //www.byd.com
