41

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

BMW Group Integrated Strategy

BMW GROUP INTEGRATED STRATEGY

41  Environmental Analysis and Megatrends

42  Strategy Process

46  Performance  Indicators and Performance 

Management

B M W   G R O U P   I N T E G R AT E D   S T R AT E G Y

The BMW Group operates at the area of tension with challenging, 
increasingly  complex  and  differentiated  influencing  factors 
around the world. Along with macroeconomic factors such as 
inflation and the level of interest rates, this also includes the 
increasing uncertainty and volatility of the general situation:

 — Geopolitical challenges that affect business activities and 

global supply chains 

 — Increased competitive dynamics 
 — Megatrends such as electrification and connectivity 
 — A capital market focused on profitability and growth 
 — Sustainability and circularity
 — Societal expectations in the face of climate change 
 — Demographic change

We constantly refine our corporate strategy and align our stra-
tegic targets with these influencing factors and their dynamic rate 
of change as important input parameters. 

The BMW Group’s integrated strategy is based on fundamental 
values and elements such as the integrity of our actions and 
takes account of the increasing pace of change in an ongoing 
process. ↗ Compliance and Human Rights Its starting point is the 
analysis of the global megatrends that are of crucial importance 
for the transformation of the automotive industry. Its core com-
ponents  are  the  integrated,  continuous  strategy  process,  the 
target system and ↗ Performance Management.

E N V I R O N M E N TA L   A N A LY S I S 
A N D   M E G AT R E N D S

A company’s success depends to a large extent on its ability 
to recognise changes in its environment early on, plan for differ-
ent scenarios, effectively manage risks and take advantage of 
 opportunities  that  may  arise  from  such  changes  ↗  Risks  and 
 Opportunities. To this end, we continuously monitor the business 
environment in our key regions, using available data to analyse 
the trends and developments that could affect our business in 
the future. Regular ↗ Dialogue with Stakeholders within the scope of 
the BMW Group XChange formats completes the picture from the 
analysis of external and environmental factors. 

The most important megatrends with long-term implications for 
the BMW Group’s business model are currently mobility patterns 
in society, climate change as well as the reduction of carbon 
dioxide (CO2) emissions and resource consumption, electromo-
bility, digitalisation and connectivity – including automated and 
autonomous driving.

 
 
 
42

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

BMW Group Integrated Strategy

Mobility patterns
Individual mobility remains a fundamental human need, though 
vehicle ownership depends to a large extent on income, house-
hold size and location. On-demand mobility (ODM) services remain 
relevant, especially in urban areas, but are mainly used as a sup-
plementary option. 

Climate change and CO2 reduction
We see the consequences of climate change as a major challenge 
for the future. As governments around the world work to trans-
pose the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement into national laws, 
investors are increasingly evaluating companies and their busi-
ness models according to ESG criteria. ↗ BMW Group and capital 
market Within the EU, the adopted ↗ EU Taxonomy aims to classify 
a company’s business activities according to sustainability criteria. 

Electromobility and drive technologies
In the transport sector, a swift transition to electromobility is an 
important prerequisite on the road to climate neutrality. By 2030, 
a complete array electric vehicles in terms of both product diver-
sity and range will be offered. Growing demand is additionally 
strengthened by the benefits of lower running costs and frame-
work conditions such as government subsidies. ↗ Electromobility 

Digitalisation and connectivity
The modern vehicle is already one of the most complex digital 
items owned by consumers. The implementation of software in-
creasingly makes vehicles products which are expected to have 
corresponding digital functions. These are expected to provide 
reliable help and support in everyday life, offer additional options 
and  fit  seamlessly  into  a  customer’s  personal  environment. 
 Accordingly, customer expectations are advancing worldwide and 
are an important factor in purchasing decisions. 
↗ Innovation, Digitalisation and Customer Orientation 

Beyond vehicle digitalisation, connectivity offers further potential 
along the value chain. To this end, the BMW Group founded the 
virtual  platform  Catena-X  Automotive  Network,  together  with 
other manufacturers, system suppliers and technology partners. 
Catena-X connects global players to entire value chains with the 
aim of exchanging data securely on a standardised basis. ↗ Pro-
duction and Supplier Network 

Automated/autonomous driving
Alongside digitalisation, development of automated/autonomous 
driving remains a key expectation for the future of mobility. Due 
to the importance of this topic for the automotive industry and 
the complexity of the technologies and required expertise, ex-
tensive funding is being channelled into development in this area 
worldwide. 

Concrete requirements and regulations for autonomous driving 
are likely to be in place in some individual countries and regions 
by 2025. The aim of all regulators is presumably to authorise au-
tonomous driving systems in the medium term. ↗ Products

S T R AT E G Y   P R O C E S S

The BMW Group regards the strategy process as a continuous 
task. The Board of Management therefore regularly addresses 
strategic  issues. The  assumptions  underpinning  our  strategy 
are regularly reviewed based on our environmental analysis. The 
BMW Group’s corporate strategy, including its product strategy 
and its strategic goals, are the starting point for business depart-
ments  to  define  concrete  approaches  and  the  corresponding 
measures. This process takes place via a closed-loop planning 
and management system. The strategy is integrated into longer-
range corporate planning that is revised annually. Its implemen-
tation is monitored by a target system that is comprised of the 
aspects of finance, customers, processes, learning and develop-
ment.  ↗  Performance  Indicators  and  Performance  Management. The 
strategy process allows plans to be drawn up for different sce-
narios to account for increasingly volatile and challenging envi-
ronmental conditions, thereby ensuring flexibility and respon-
siveness.

Corporate strategy
The BMW Group’s strategy is oriented to its corporate purpose. 
It is the driving force, the guiding principle and the orientation for 
our employees, and our commitment to our active role in society: 
“The BMW Group exists to move body, heart and mind.”

With this in mind, the BMW Group’s corporate strategy, referred 
to as the “BMW Group strategy”, defines the strategic framework 
and lays the foundation for the Company to maintain a consistent 
and market-oriented focus on profitability, growth and sus-
tainability, even in an increasingly dynamic environment. The 
BMW Group strategy outlines targets in four areas: position, 
direction, strategic approach and collaboration. 

 
43

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

BMW Group Integrated Strategy

BMW Group Strategy

Position

Direction

Strategic approach

Collaboration

Position –  
What does the BMW Group stand for? 

The BMW Group is committed to first-class individual mobility 
and contributes to sustainable development. It aims to find the 
right balance between business, the environment and society, 
and combines pleasure and responsibility without compromise. 
The BMW Group is committed to the Paris Climate Agreement 
and to providing a verifiable track record of continuous improve-
ment. To achieve this, the BMW Group promotes the reduction 
of CO2 emissions throughout the whole life cycle of its products 
as well as the principles of the circular economy – from the sup-
ply chain to production, the use phase and the recycling of its 
products. For this reason, the BMW Group has laid out measur-
able, science-based targets to be reached by 2030; these are 
firmly established across the Company (base year 2019). CO2 
emissions are to be reduced as follows: 

1.  An average of 80 % carbon reduction at our own production 
sites and locations (Scope 1 and 2) per vehicle produced 
(↗ Reduce carbon emissions at the locations) 

the new generation of combustion engine technology will 
make this possible. An additional driving force for this is 
the dynamic growth in demand for our electrified vehicles  
↗ Electromobility, ↗ Automotive segment

3.  An  average  of  at  least  20 %*  carbon  reduction  in  the 
 supply  chain  (Scope  3  upstream)  per vehicle  produced 
↗ Carbon emissions in the supply chain

We have joined the Science-Based Targets Initiative (SBTi) for 
this purpose. This will enable us to guarantee transparency and 
comparability in the validation and measurement of our targets 
and, at the same time, ensure they are in line with the latest 
scientific findings. ↗ Carbon emissions 

↗ Control parameters such as ↗ carbon emissions over the entire prod-
uct life cycle are important ↗ Performance indicators during the de-
velopment phase of our vehicle projects. The Board of Manage-
ment receives and discusses a status report on sustainability 
every quarter and derives appropriate measures as required.

2.  Carbon reduction during the vehicle’s use phase (Scope 3 
downstream) by an average of at least 50 % per kilometre 
driven. Increased efficiency in our electrified models and 

The BMW Group is actively working on numerous projects and 
initiatives to improve the framework conditions for electromobil-
ity, including the expansion of charging infrastructure on a broad 
basis. The ambitious goals of the Paris Climate Agreement are 

designed to tackle climate change in the transport sector, requir-
ing a combination of modern drive technologies that are closely 
aligned with customer needs and different mobility requirements 
around the world. In addition to all-electric models, plug-in hybrids 
and modern combustion engine technologies also make an im-
portant contribution to the reduction of global CO2 emissions. 
The BMW Group is also continuously forging ahead with its work 
with hydrogen. ↗ Products 

ESG criteria are built into individual market strategies across our 
global organisation. Best practices in the fields of environmental 
protection, social sustainability, corporate citizenship and gov-
ernance are also shared within an international sustainability 
network.

Direction –  
What drives the BMW Group? 

The BMW Group offers exciting products for current and future 
generations  and  secures  its  independence  as  a  company  by 
maintaining a high level of profitability. The BMW Group is shap-
ing the future of sustainable mobility with its passion and strong 
capacity  for  innovation.  Thanks  to  its  exciting  products,  the 
BMW Group is able to achieve maximum customer satisfaction 
and brand strength, and thus grow its market share. 

Economic performance is a very important aspect of our corpo-
rate management system. To underline the importance of the 
BMW Group’s profitability, our ambitious financial targets are tied 
to the following strategic key performance indicators: EBIT margin 
in the Automotive segment (between 8 and 10 %), RoCE in the 
Automotive segment (at least 18 %) and Group EBT margin (more 
than 10 %). ↗ Performance Indicators and Performance Management

*   For the sake of simplicity, this figure has been rounded. The target validated under SBTi is 22 %.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
44

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

BMW Group Integrated Strategy

As part of our focus on efficiency, we regularly assess ways to 
utilise synergies and efficiencies across the Company. In this way, 
we reduce the complexities that arise from increasingly strict 
and  heterogeneous regulatory requirements. Faster, digitalised 
processes in lean structures are fundamental to systematically 
leveraging efficiencies. 

Strategic approach –  
Where is the BMW Group heading? 

The BMW Group is focused on its customers worldwide and on 
meeting their different requirements. It does so by understanding 
the needs of its current and future customers and exceeding their 
expectations. It combines groundbreaking technologies, emo-
tional products and individual customer care to create a unique 
overall experience. The topics of electrification, digitalisation and 
circularity are of particular importance.

We recognised the importance of electromobility early on and 
have been working resolutely to implement this transformation 
in the Company. The BMW Group invests in both the renovation 
of  existing  plants  and  the  development  of  employee  skills, 
with the view that continuous training guarantees jobs world-
wide. ↗ Employees and Society The restructuring of our main plant 
in   Munich, set to be completed by 2026, demonstrates how the 
BMW Group is successfully shaping the transformation of an entire 
plant – including engine production – during ongoing production, 
from combustion engine technology to 100 % electromobility. 
 In this context, the BMW Group is making considerable invest-
ments to also drive this continuous transformation in all aspects 
of sustainability (ESG criteria). ↗ Production and Supplier Network, 
 ↗ Employees and Society 

The BMW Group is making customer experience the focus of all 
its marketing and sales activities. The aim is to offer the industry’s 
best premium customer experience. In an increasingly digital 
environment with changing customer needs, the Company relies 
on a future-oriented sales structure with a focus on the digitali-
sation of the customer interface and direct customer access. In 
this context, the My BMW App and MINI App play a significant 
role with almost ten million users at present. More than two 
million customers access the apps every day. Using their smart-
phones,  they  interact  with  their  BMW  or  MINI  vehicles,  the 
BMW Group itself and the BMW and MINI dealerships and also 
receive personalised offers. The relationship with the customer 
thus becomes even closer. 

In the future, direct sales with agents as sales representatives in 
Europe and China will become a further essential element of the 
realigned sales structure. MINI will be the first Group brand to 
implement the new sales model in Europe and China, and the 
BMW brand will follow suit in Europe in 2026. This is how the 
BMW Group is decisively driving forward with its online sale of 
vehicles. 

Customers are free to choose whether they would like to order 
their vehicle from agents or online. They also have the option to 
seamlessly switch between both worlds. At the same time, we 
aim to achieve consistent prices across all sales channels, pro-
viding a beneficial transparency for our customers. The trading 
partners will be closely involved in the implementation. The new 
sales  structure  offers  an  attractive  and  sustainable  business 
model for these partners, and they will continue to be the face 
for customers in the future, where they can focus on providing 
the best advice and support. In turn, the BMW Group is improving 
customer access through direct sales, a basic requirement when 
aiming to offer the best customer experience in the industry. In the 

Financial Services segment, we are also continually expanding 
our services to include digital and modular services. The aim is 
for our products to be accessible to all customer groups across 
all channels within our strategic orientation in the  Financial Ser-
vices segment. ↗ Financial Services segment

Collaboration – How does the BMW Group 
achieve this? 

The BMW Group constantly strives for the best results, support-
ing its employees with the discovery and development of their 
potential so they are able to remain productive. We support and 
challenge strong teams with complementary strengths who work 
together to achieve the best solutions in a complex environment. 
We see diversity as an important element of our competitiveness. 
↗ Employees and Society The diversity metric defines the share of 
women in management positions as a key performance indicator 
and a strategic target variable. The aim is to increase the share 
of women in management positions at the BMW Group to 22 % 
by 2025. ↗ Performance Indicators and Performance Management 

BMW Group employees not only work closely together within the 
Company, but also with external partners. The stable relation-
ships that have grown in our partner networks over time  are 
based on the same values as those at the BMW Group. They 
allow us to maximise our effectiveness and work together to lead 
the Company to success. This has proven effective in the crisis 
years, most recently in 2022: our ↗ Supply Chains held up and our 
dealer network remained strong, despite challenging conditions 
including the shortage of semiconductor components, pandemic- 
related lockdowns in China and additional supply bottlenecks 
resulting from the war in Ukraine. 

  
 
 
 
45

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

BMW Group Integrated Strategy

Together with our cooperation partners, we realise potential by 
accessing  more  expertise  and  improving  our  profitability  and 
technology footprint. We continuously expand our collaborations 
to unlock additional potential for value creation in the Group. 
↗ Innovation, Digitalisation and Customer Orientation

BMW Motorrad continued to pursue its electrification strategy 
with the successful launch of the BMW CE 04 electric scooter in 
March 2022. Furthermore, the all-electric BMW CE 02 concept 
vehicle provides an outlook on additional offerings in urban 
mobility. ↗ Motorcycles segment

In addition to delivering product substance, we also offer cus-
tomers a 360˚ approach with an appropriate charging ecosystem. 
Customers can charge their vehicles at home, at work and in 
public places, and can also use our BMW Charging and MINI 
Charging stations. ↗ Electromobility 

Beginning in 2025, we will take the next step in our transforma-
tion process with the NEUE KLASSE, which is expected to set 
standards in electrification, digitalisation and circularity. 

The NEUE KLASSE is distinguished by its new cluster architecture 
(NCAR), which is entirely focused on BEVs (battery electric vehi-
cles). The sixth generation of our electric drivetrain features a 
completely  new  high-voltage  storage  concept,  optimised  cell 
design and improved cell chemistry. These developments result 
in a roughly 30 % longer range, an up to 30 % shorter charging 
time, and about 50 % lower manufacturing costs. The new gen-
eration of drives will consist of highly scalable modules that can 
cover the entire range of our products. The BEV-focused vehicle 
architecture  and  the  new  generation  of  drives  and  batteries 
are  expected  to  provide  significant  gains  in  efficiency  in  the 
NEUE KLASSE.

Product strategy and the electric future with the 
NEUE KLASSE 

The BMW Group is consistently implementing the transformation 
towards all-electric, connected mobility. As early as 2013, the 
Company pioneered e-mobility by developing the technology for 
“project i” and putting it into series production in the BMW i3 and 
BMW i8.

The all-electric vehicle model initiative was launched in 2020, 
and by the end of 2022, seven models had been launched: the 
BMW iX3 1, the BMW iX 1, the BMW i4 1, the BMW i7 1, the BMW iX1 1, 
the long-wheelbase version of the BMW 3 Series for the Chinese 
market and the MINI Cooper SE1. With 215,752 2 fully electrified 
vehicles, the number of deliveries more than doubled in reporting 
year 2022 (2021: 103,854 2 vehicles/+107.7 %). BMW M is also 
working on various forms of electrification. In 2021, the brand 
launched a performance automobile with an all-electric drive 
system,  the  BMW  i4  M501,  followed  by  the  BMW  iX  M601  in 
2022.

The  BMW  i5  sedan  and  the  long-wheelbase  version  of  the 
BMW iX1 for the Chinese market will be available for sale in 2023. 
Rolls-Royce, the world’s leading brand in the luxury class, will 
launch  its  first  all-electric  vehicle,  the  Spectre 1.  ↗  Automotive 
 segment This  means  the  BMW  Group  will  have  at  least  one 
all-electric model in nearly all major model series on the roads 
in 2023. The share of electrified vehicles in total deliveries is 
expected to exceed 30 % by as early as 2025. Intelligent vehicle 
architecture and the highly flexible ↗ Production Network are the 
basis of this initiative. 

Catena-X

As a co-founder and member of Catena-X, the BMW Group 

is part of a collaborative, open data ecosystem that con-

nects suppliers, automobile manufacturers and recycling 

companies digitally. Catena-X aims to facilitate a cohesive 

digital  flow  of  information  across  the  entire  value  chain. 

Catena-X users are connected using a data-driven approach 

based  on  European  values  and  principles  (GAIA-X  and 

IDSA) and common standards, enabling different applica-

tions along the entire automotive value chain for the first 

time. The sovereign exchange of data allows each company 

to retain control of its own data. 

Catena-X  is  currently  focused  on  the  circular  economy, 

 resilience,  profitability  and  customer  experience.  A  da-

tabase  is  being  created  to  ensure  the  transparency  of 

sustainability  and  regulatory  requirements  such  as  the 

carbon  footprint.  Uniform  standards  and  processes  will 

make  it  possible  to  gradually  take  on  additional  partners 

for  cross-company  collaborations,  regardless  of  their 

size.  Membership  in  the  Catena-X  network  could  play  a 

 larger role in the supplier nomination process in the  future 
in  order  to  ensure  consistency  in  the  supply  chain.  The 

 Catena-X  network  currently  has  133  members  (status: 

1 January 2023).

1  ↗ Consumption and Carbon Disclosures.
2  Includes BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd.

 
46

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

BMW Group Integrated Strategy

As  part  of  the  revolutionary  user  experience  concept  for  the 
NEUE KLASSE, the BMW Panoramic Vision introduces a new 
generation of head-up displays that provide customers with a 
projection  of  comprehensive,  relevant  information  across  the 
entire  windscreen. This  reinterpretation  of  driver  orientation 
creates a new user interface and increases safety on the road by 
the “eyes on the road and hands on the wheel” approach. The 
NEUE KLASSE also features a newly defined electric/electronic 
architecture for hardware and software and a new module system 
for automated driving. This is expected to establish the basis for 
generation of an increasing proportion of sales through individ-
ually configurable and bookable features over the vehicle’s life 
cycle.

Another aim of the NEUE KLASSE is to achieve a new level of 
sustainability across the entire vehicle life cycle. To this end, the 
BMW Group focuses on the concept of circularity, using an in-
creasing proportion of secondary materials.  ↗ Closing material cycles 

Group 
 — Profit before tax (EBT)
 — Number of employees at the end of the year
 — Share of women in management positions (in %)

Automotive segment 
 — Profit  before  financial  result  as  a  percentage  of  revenues 

(EBIT margin; in %)

 — Return on capital employed (RoCE; in %)
 — Deliveries (in units)
 — Share of electrified vehicles in deliveries  

(in %; until 2022)

 — Share of all-electric vehicles in deliveries (in %; from 2023, 

see ↗ Performance Management)

 — CO2 emissions EU new vehicle fleet (in g CO2/km)
 — CO2 emissions per vehicle produced (in tonnes) 

Motorcycles segment 
 — Profit  before  financial  result  as  a  percentage  of  revenues 

(EBIT margin; in %) 

 — Return on capital employed (RoCE; in %)
 — Deliveries (in units) 

Financial Services segment 
 — Return on equity (RoE; in %)

Production of vehicles for the NEUE KLASSE will get underway 
in 2025 at the newly constructed BMW Group plant in Debrecen 
and then be expanded to the BMW Group plant in Munich from 
2026 onwards. Additional volumes will be achieved by integrat-
ing NEUE KLASSE into the BMW Group plant in San Luis Potosí 
from 2027. All-electric vehicles are expected to make up more 
than  half  of  the  BMW  Group’s  total  deliveries  by  2030. The 
Rolls-Royce brand is set to become fully electric by 2030, and 
the MINI brand will follow suit by 2031. ↗ Electromobility

P E R F O R M A N C E 
 I N D I C AT O R S   A N D   P E R F O R-
M A N C E   M A N A G E M E N T

The BMW Group’s strategic targets are derived from the find-
ings of the ↗ Environmental Analysis and Megatrends in an ongoing 
 ↗ Strategy Process and subsequently translated into a system for 
measuring performance. The resulting target system is therefore 
a key instrument for anchoring strategy throughout the Company. 
For corporate management purposes, the strategic targets are 
backed by effective performance indicators. 

Long-range corporate planning for the Company as a whole and 
its segments is geared towards the structure of the BMW Group 
target system. In this way, the targets set out in the planning are 
regularly compared with the BMW Group’s strategic goals.

Once approved by the Board of Management and the Supervi-
sory Board, the target amounts decided upon within the strate-
gic target system become the basis of planning for the current 
reporting year and for the target agreements with BMW Group 
managers. ↗ Remuneration Report The following summarises  the 
key performance indicators defined in DRS 20, which also form 
the  basis  for  performance  management  in  the  BMW  Group. 
↗ Performance Management

 
 
 
 
47

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

BMW Group Integrated Strategy

Performance management 
The BMW Group’s performance management system follows a 
value-based approach that focuses on profitability, consistent 
company growth, value enhancement for capital providers, sus-
tainability, climate protection and job security. Capital is consid-
ered to be employed profitably when the amount of profit gener-
ated on a sustained basis exceeds the cost of equity and debt 
capital. This strategy also secures the desired degree of corpo-
rate autonomy in the long term.

The BMW  Group’s performance management system is based 
on  a  multilayered  structure.  Operational  performance  is  man-
aged primarily at segment level. In order to influence long-term 
 corporate performance, additional key performance figures are 
taken into account within the management system at Group 
level. In this context, the value added serves as one of several 
indicators to measure the contribution made to enterprise value 
during the financial year. This aspiration to add value is measured 
at both Group and segment level by means of the key perfor-
mance indicators. The link between value added and the relevant 
value drivers is presented in a simplified form below.

BMW Group – value drivers

Value added

Return on 
capital 
(RoCE or 
RoE)

Return on 
sales

Capital 
turnover

Cost of 
capital

Expenses

Revenues

Profit

Capital 
 employed 

Average
weighted 
average cost 
of capital

Managing sustainability
The BMW Group’s long-term corporate strategy is determined 
by the Board of Management. Responsibility for implementing 
the Group’s sustainability goals also lies with the full Board. 
Significant decisions are therefore also evaluated from the point 
of view of sustainability. This ensures that sustainability issues 
are systematically integrated in decision-making processes and 
to compensation at top management levels.

As part of the procedures for managing sustainability on an in-
tegrated basis at corporate level, a Group target system has been 
created  which  has  been  implemented  for  each  of  the  Board 
members’ areas of responsibility. The BMW Group has set itself 
the target of decarbonising its vehicle fleet by an average of 40 % 
overall over the entire life cycle by 2030, compared to the base 
year 2019. In this context, specific targets have been set for the 
scope of the vehicle’s use phase, production and supply chain 
(↗ Position, ↗ Carbon emissions). Based on these targets, specific 
carbon requirements for each vehicle project are derived, digital-
ly managed and monitored.

An integrated approach to target management ensures that the 
BMW  Group’s vehicle  projects  make  a  positive  contribution 
towards achieving the sustainability targets that have been set. 
Furthermore, the BMW Group will increase targets for the use of 
secondary raw materials in the long term. Non-financial perfor-
mance indicators such as carbon emissions and, in future, sec-
ondary  raw  materials  quotas  are  therefore  key  performance 
indicators for all new vehicle projects. The overall result is a co-
hesive management model across all aspects of the business. 
This ensures that financial aspects are taken into consideration 
and the most effective measures are prioritised for implementa-
tion in all areas. ↗ GRI Index: 2-13

Managing operational performance at segment level
At segment level, operational performance is managed using an 
aggregated approach based on returns on capital. Depending 
on the business model, the segments are measured on the basis 
of return on total capital or return on equity.

48

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

BMW Group Integrated Strategy

Return on capital employed (RoCE) is used for the Automotive 
and Motorcycles segments and return on equity (RoE) for the 
Financial Services segment. These indicators combine a wide 
range of relevant economic information, such as profitability (re-
turn on sales) and capital efficiency (capital turnover) to measure 
segment performance and the development of enterprise value.

Automotive segment
The most comprehensive key performance indicator used for the 
Automotive segment is RoCE, which provides information on the 
profitability of capital employed and business operations. Value 
driver analyses are used to interpret the causes of a change in 
RoCE and derive suitable measures to influence its development. 

The capital employed items taken into account reflect the focus 
of operational segment management. Capital employed is cal-
culated  as  the  sum  of  intangible  assets,  property,  plant  and 
equipment and net working capital, the latter comprising inven-
tories and trade receivables less trade payables. The amount of 
capital employed increased as compared to 2021 in light of the 
acquisition of further shares in BMW Brilliance and the resulting 
full consolidation of that entity in the BMW Group Financial State-
ments from 11 February 2022. The increase arose primarily due 
to the takeover of property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets as well as the capitalisation of reacquired rights in con-
junction with the purchase price allocation. The RoCE will be 
impacted temporarily by the higher capital base as well as the 
related amortisation expense expected to be recorded.

The  strategic  target  for  RoCE  is  18 %.  Value  is  enhanced  for 
BMW AG shareholders when the RoCE exceeds the cost of capital.

Return on capital employed (Automotive segment) 1

Profit before financial result  
in € million

Average capital employed  
in € million

Return on capital employed  
in %

Automotive

2022

10,635

2021

9,870

2022

58,728

2021

41,064

2022

18.1

2021

24.0

Due to the special significance of the RoCE for the BMW Group, 
additional key figures are used to manage the Automotive Seg-
ment which have a considerable influence on the return on 
investment and subsequently on the success of the segment as 
a whole. These value drivers include deliveries and the operating 
return on sales (EBIT margin: segment profit before financial 
result as a percentage of segment revenues) as a key figure for 
profitability in the segment. 

increasing focus on fully electric vehicles and their increasing im-
portance for the Company’s ambitious CO2 targets. ↗ Outlook

RoCE Automotive 

or  Motorcycles 

=

Profit before

financial result

Average

capital employed

Furthermore, the Automotive segment manages its compliance 
with fleet carbon emissions requirements in regulated markets. 
In this context, it also reports on the share of electrified vehicles 
in total deliveries. ↗ Performance Indicators As compliance with reg-
ulatory requirements is a significant factor in the BMW Group’s 
success, business decisions relating to vehicle projects also take 
targets  for  fleet  carbon  emissions  into  account.  ↗  Managing 
 sustainability  Starting  with  the  financial year  2023,  the  perfor-
mance indicator “share of electrified vehicles in deliveries” will 
be replaced by the indicator “share of fully electric vehicles in 
deliveries”. The reason for the adjustment is the BMW Group’s 

Motorcycles segment
The Motorcycles segment is largely managed according to the 
same logic applied to the Automotive segment. The principal key 
performance indicator is the return on capital employed (RoCE). 
The strategic RoCE target set for the Motorcycles segment is 
18 %.

The main value drivers are the deliveries and the operating return 
on sales (EBIT margin: segment profit before financial result as 
a percentage of segment revenues) as the key performance 
indicator for segment profitability.

Return on capital employed (Motorcycles segment) 2

Profit before financial result  
in € million

Average capital employed  
in € million

Return on capital employed  
in %

Motorcycles

2022

257

2021

227

2022

1,031

2021

1,034

2022

24.9

2021

21.9

1   The term “RoCE” has been redefined with effect from the reporting year 2022 (for definition, see ↗ Glossary). The 2021 figure was adjusted accordingly for comparison purposes (2021 before adjustment: 59.9 %).
2   The term “RoCE” has been redefined with effect from the reporting year 2022 (for definition, see ↗ Glossary). The 2021 figure was adjusted accordingly for comparison purposes (2021 before adjustment: 35.9 %).  

 
 
 
 
49

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

BMW Group Integrated Strategy

Return on equity (Financial Services segment)

Profit before tax 
in € million

Average equity  
capital in € million

Return on equity  
in %

Financial Services

2022

3,205

2021

3,753

2022

17,891

2021

16,586

2022

17.9

2021

22.6

Financial Services segment
The performance of the Financial Services segment is measured 
on the basis of the return on equity (RoE), a key performance 
indicator  commonly  used  in  the  banking  sector.  Within  the 
BMW Group, RoE is defined as segment profit before tax, divid-
ed by the average amount of equity capital in the Financial Ser-
vices segment. The target is a return on equity of at least 14 %.

The information provided by these key performance indicators 
at Group level is complemented by the two financial performance 
indicators of pre-tax return on sales and value added. Value add-
ed, as a highly aggregated performance indicator, also provides 
an insight into capital efficiency and the (opportunity) cost of 
capital required to generate Group profit. A positive value added 
means that a return on investment above the cost of capital has 
been achieved.

RoE Financial Services 

=

Profit before

tax

Average

equity

Strategic management at Group level
Strategic management and the measurement of its financial 
impact are coordinated primarily at Group level in conjunction 
with the long-term corporate plan. Group profit/loss before tax 
provides a comprehensive measure of the Group’s overall cor-
porate performance after consolidation effects and enables a 
transparent comparison over time. Other key performance in-
dicators at Group level are the size of the workforce at the year-
end as well as the share of women in management positions. 
By 2025, the BMW Group aims to increase the share of women 
in management positions to 22 %. ↗ Strategy Process

Value added Group

=

=

earnings amount – 

cost of capital

earnings amount – 

(cost of capital rate x capital employed)

Value added Group

Earnings amount Cost of capital (equity + debt capital)

Value added Group

in € million

BMW Group

2022

23,730

2021

16,289

2022

11,194

2021

8,938

2022

12,536

2021

7,351

 
 
 
 
50

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

BMW Group Integrated Strategy

Capital employed comprises the amount of Group equity and 
pension provisions as well as the financial liabilities of the Auto-
motive and Motorcycles segments employed on average at the 
end of each of the last five quarters. The earnings amount cor-
responds to Group profit/loss before tax, adjusted for interest 
expense incurred in conjunction with the pension provisions and 
on the financial liabilities of the Automotive and Motorcycles seg-
ments (profit/loss before interest expense and tax). The cost of 
capital is the minimum rate of return expected by capital provid-
ers in return for the capital employed. Since capital employed 
comprises an equity capital (e.g. share capital) and a debt capital 
element (e.g. bonds), the overall cost of capital is determined on 
the basis of the weighted average rates for equity and debt 
capital, measured using standard market procedures. The pre-tax 
average weighted cost of capital for the BMW Group in 2022 was 
12 %, unchanged from the previous year.

In order to determine the internal rate of return, risk-adjusted 
cost of capital rates are based on the average of actual rates in 
recent years. In light of the long-term nature of product and in-
vestment decisions, the following internal rates of return are used 
in conjunction with segment management:

Value-based management for project decisions
Operational business in the Automotive and Motorcycles seg-
ments is largely shaped by the life-cycle-dependent character of 
investment projects that have a substantial influence on future 
performance. Project-related decisions are therefore a crucial 
element of financial management in the BMW Group. Project 
decisions are based on calculations derived from the expected 
cash flows of each individual project. Calculations are made for 
the complete term of a project, incorporating future years in which 
the project is expected to generate cash flows. Project decisions 
are taken on the basis of net present value and the internal rate 
of return calculated for the project. The net present value indi-
cates the extent to which the project will be able to generate 
future net cash inflows over and above the cost of capital. A 
project with a positive net present value enhances future value 
added and therefore results in an increase in enterprise value. 
The project’s internal rate of return measures the average return 
on the capital employed in the project. For all project decisions, 
the project criteria and long-term impact on periodic results are 
measured and incorporated in the long-term Group plan. This 
approach enables an analysis of the impact of project decisions 
on periodic earnings and rates of return for each year during the 
term of the project.

in %

Automotive

Motorcycles

Financial Services

2022

12.0

12.0

13.4

 2021

12.0

12.0

13.4

Board of Management remuneration 
Performance criteria for the variable remuneration paid to mem-
bers of the Board of Management are based on the key strategic 
targets and performance indicators. More information can be 
found in the ↗ Remuneration Report.

79

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

EU Taxonomy

E U   TA X O N O M Y

Within the framework of the implementation of the European 
Green Deal and the Action Plan “Financing Sustainable Growth”, 
the EU Taxonomy is a cornerstone of the EU’s aspiration to be-
come climate-neutral by 2050. Its key objectives are to increase 
transparency  and  provide  an  objective  benchmark  for  capital 
market participants in order to channel capital flows towards 
environmentally sustainable economic activities.

The EU Taxonomy is a classification system that defines eco-
nomic activities as environmentally sustainable based on fulfil-
ment of predetermined technical screening criteria.

Essentially, an economic activity can only be classified as sustain-
able if it substantially contributes to one of the following six en-
vironmental objectives: 

I. 
II. 
III. 

Climate change mitigation
Climate change adaptation
 Sustainable use and protection of water and marine 
resources

IV.  Transition to a circular economy
 Pollution prevention and control
V. 
 Protection and restoration of biodiversity and 
VI. 
ecosystems 

This contribution is based on fulfilment of specific predetermined 
requirements. Moreover, no other environmental objective may 
be significantly harmed as a result of performing the activity and 
the  Company  involved  must  observe  minimum  safeguards, 
among them compliance with human rights.

On the basis of the phased introduction of the EU Taxonomy in 
the Delegated Acts, companies such as the BMW Group were 
required to report the Taxonomy-eligible proportion of their rev-
enues,  capital  expenditures  and  operating  expenditures  for 
 Environmental Objectives I and II for the first time in the previous 
year. Since reporting year 2022, the reporting requirements have 
been  expanded  to  include Taxonomy-aligned  proportions  for 
both  these  environmental  objectives.  The  reporting  scope  is 
 expected to be expanded to the environmental objectives III to 
VI starting with the reporting year 2024. 

Our holistic understanding of sustainability
The BMW Group supports the overarching goal of the EU Taxon-
omy to promote the private financing of environmentally sustain-
able economic activities in order to make Europe the world’s first 
climate-neutral continent by 2050. As a company aspiring to 
achieve net zero across its entire value chain by no later than 
2050, we welcome all initiatives that serve this objective. As part 
of this commitment, the BMW Group had already set ambitious, 
science-based targets for all three scopes in 2020, which it aims 
to achieve by 2030 (base year 2019). These goals were validated 
by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). Each year, the 
BMW Group Report informs about the level of progress.  ↗  Strategy

In the coming years, the significant growth in electromobility will 
imply that the majority of carbon emissions will be generated 
within the upstream value chain, rather than primarily in the use 
phase. Without the anticipated set of measures to reduce carbon 
emissions generated within the BMW Group supply chain, these 
emissions  would  already  exceed  actual  carbon  emissions  in 
the use phase prior to 2030. ↗ Strategy, ↗ Production and Supplier 
 Network, ↗ Carbon emissions Accordingly, the BMW Group is taking 
a holistic approach to achieving its sustainability-related targets 
and  is  committed  to  considering  carbon  emissions  over  the 
 entire  life cycle of the vehicles produced. ↗ Carbon emissions How-
ever,  for  the  economic  activities  that  are  relevant  to  the 
BMW Group, the EU Taxonomy focuses exclusively on reducing 
carbon emissions during the use phase that are attributable to 
low-emissions (until 2025) and emissions-free drive systems. 
Indirect carbon emissions, for instance those produced when 
generating charging current or during the energy-intensive pro-
duction of high-voltage batteries, are not taken into account in 
the context of these economic activities. Moreover, the EU Tax-
onomy only reflects the impact of decarbonisation measures in 
in-house production to the extent that they serve to manufacture 
Taxonomy-aligned products or to the extent that they are explic-
itly included in the description of an activity. The deficit of this 
approach is shown by the example that increasing the energy 
efficiency of paint shop processes also reduces carbon emissions 
in in-house production when a conventionally powered vehicle 
is painted. In light of the BMW Group’s selected economic activ-
ities, its sustainability efforts in this regard are not, or are only 
partially, taken into account in the EU Taxonomy. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
80

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

EU Taxonomy

Explanatory comments on reporting procedures
Explanatory comments on reporting procedures for the reporting 
year 2022, we are reporting on Taxonomy alignment for the first 
time in relation to Environmental Objective I “Climate change 
mitigation”  and  Environmental  Objective  II  “Climate  change 
 adaptation”,  in  addition  to  reporting  on Taxonomy  eligibility. 
 Taxonomy eligibility is an initial indicator of the maximum envi-
ronmental  sustainability  potential  of  economic  activities  as 
 defined by the EU Taxonomy. Taxonomy alignment, on the other 
hand, serves as an indicator of an organisation’s transformation 
 towards environmentally sustainable economic activities.

An economic activity is to be seen as Taxonomy-eligible if it is 
described in the Delegated Acts relating to one of the six envi-
ronmental  objectives,  regardless  of  whether  that  economic 
 activity meets the technical screening criteria stipulated in those 
Delegated Acts. Following an analysis, the BMW Group’s business 
activities can best be summarised under the following economic 
activities1:

 — Economic activity 3.3 “Manufacture of low carbon technolo-
gies for transport” including the production of passenger cars 
and motorcycles.

 — Economic activity 6.5 “Transport by motorbikes, passenger 
cars and light commercial vehicles” including the acquisition, 
financing, lease and operation of automobiles and motor-
cycles.

Based on the descriptions of the two economic activities listed 
for Environmental Objective I “Climate change mitigation” and 
in consideration of the additional clarification by the EU Com-
mission  regarding  the  Taxonomy  eligibility  of  vehicles  with 
 com bustion engines under economic activity 3.3, a large part of 
the BMW Group’s business model falls within the scope of the 
EU Taxonomy Annex . 2

Only the sale of parts and components, such as after-sales busi-
ness  excluding  the  provision  of  repair  services,  the  supply  of 
components for production to BMW Brilliance up to and including 

Explanatory comments on reporting procedures

Taxonomy
eligibility

+

Substantial
contribution

+

DNSH

+

Minimum 
safeguards

=

Economic
activity is 
taxonomy­aligned

Economic activities are 
described in 
the Delegated Act on 
environmental objectives 
1 and 2

Fulfilment of technical 
screening criteria: 
substantial contribution 
to at least
one of the environmental 
objectives

Economic activity does 
not cause significant 
harm to other environmental 
objectives

Company establishes 
minimum safeguard 
procedures for human 
rights, bribery and 
corruption, taxation and 
fair competition

10 February 2022 3 and/or to other third parties, and banking and 
insurance services performed by our non-automotive Financial 
Services segment, are not described as economic activities in 
the Delegated Regulation and are therefore not Taxonomy-eligi-
ble.

Consequently, in order to determine the Taxonomy alignment of 
the two aforementioned economic activities in the reporting year, 
they must be reviewed against the technical screening criteria 
relevant to them:

1)  They make a substantial contribution to the fulfilment of 
the environmental objective based on the specific carbon 
emissions for the vehicles in question.

2)  They do not cause any significant harm to other environ-
mental objectives based on the specific requirements for 
each relevant economic activity (“Do no significant harm” 
or “DNSH”).

It must also be ensured that the organisation carrying out the 
economic activities has established minimum safeguards aimed 
at guaranteeing compliance with human rights in particular and 
also minimum safeguards relating to bribery, corruption, taxation 
and fair competition.

Substantial contribution
The BMW Group has reviewed its contribution to the environ-
mental  objectives  “Climate  change  mitigation”  and  “Climate 
change adaptation” for the reporting year. Economic activity 3.3 
and economic activity 6.5 both make a substantial contribution 
to the achievement of Environmental Objective I “Climate change 
mitigation”  due  to  the  manufacture,  financing  and  leasing  of 
low-emissions  (PHEV  < 50 g  CO2/km  WLTP  until  2025)  and 
 zero-emissions vehicles (BEV and motorcycles with 0g CO2/km). 
The contribution of the two economic activities to the second 
environ mental objective “Climate change adaptation” was sub-
sumed under environmental objective I “Climate change mitiga-
tion” for reasons of materiality. 

1   The additional economic activities specified in Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1214 of 9 March 2022 

(in particular with regard to nuclear energy and gaseous fossil fuels) are not relevant to the 
BMW Group. Accordingly, specific reporting tables for these activities are not included.

2   It should be noted that the relevant Delegated Act describes the economic activity “Manufacture of 
low carbon technologies for transport” differently for Environmental Objective  I “Climate change 
mitigation” and Environmental Objective II “Climate change adaptation”. For the purposes of 
consistent reporting on the Taxonomy eligibility of vehicle production, the BMW Group follows the 
description given for Environmental Objective I, given that Taxonomy-eligible vehicle production as 
listed for Environmental Objective II is a subset of Taxonomy-eligible vehicle production for 
Environmental Objective I.

3   Further information on the consolidation of BMW Brilliance is provided in  

↗ Note [3] to the Group Financial Statements.

 
 
81

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

EU Taxonomy

Environmental objectives of EU Taxonomy

Climate change mitigation

l

Protection and restoration
of biodiversity
and ecosystems

VI

Climate change 
adaptation

II

V

Pollution protection 
and control

III

Sustainable use 
and protection of water 
and marine resources

IV

Transition to a 
circular economy

In order to identify the specific carbon emissions of PHEV that 
are not determined in line with Regulation (EU) 2019/631 (USA, 
China, etc.), assumptions were made based on the worst-case 
value for that vehicle model, even though these emissions may 
have been lower in reality.

Avoidance of significant harm
Compliance with the DNSH criteria was reviewed in the reporting 
year for the five additional environmental objectives, based in 
each case on the specific requirements for economic activity 3.3 
“Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport” and eco-
nomic activity 6.5 “Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and 
light commercial vehicles”. 

The  vehicle  portfolio  for  economic  activity  6.5  includes 
BMW Group vehicles and vehicles from other manufacturers. As 
no data are available regarding the relevant attributes of these 
third-party products, it is not currently possible to make a com-
prehensive assessment in relation to the DNSH criteria. For this 
reason, these vehicles are not currently reported as Taxonomy- 
aligned.

Climate change adaptation 

A robust climate risk and vulnerability assessment is required for 
both economic activity 3.3 and economic activity 6.5 to determine 
that they do not cause significant harm to Environmental Objec-
tive II. It considers the physical climate risks at all key BMW Group 
production sites as well as any potential damage that may occur 
as a result of climate change based on long-term climate projec-
tion scenarios* up to 2034 and 2050. Moreover, we consider po-
tential natural hazards at all of our direct supplier locations in 
order to adequately take supply risks into account when se-
lecting and evaluating suppliers. Adaptive solutions to mitigate 
risks are drawn up and implemented as appropriate based on 

*  SSP1-2.6, SSP2-4.5, SSP5-8.5.

 
  
82

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

EU Taxonomy

the results of this risk analysis and in consultation with site rep-
resentatives. For further information, see ↗ Climate-related Risks 
and Opportunities.

The DNSH requirements for Environmental Objective II are ful-
filled for economic activities 3.3 and 6.5. 

Sustainable use and protection 
of water and marine resources 
and protection and restoration of 
biodiversity and ecosystems 

In order to establish that no significant harm is caused to Environ-
mental Objectives III and VI, it is necessary to perform a compre-
hensive risk analysis that looks at the preservation and protection 
of  environmental  resources  for  economic  activity  3.3  (in  both 
cases, not relevant for economic activity 6.5). In this context, the 
BMW Group carries out environmental impact assessments in 
accordance with Directive 2011/92/EU during the construction of 
new and expansion of existing sites within the EU that also take 
account of water and biodiversity. At locations outside the EU, 
the BMW Group carries out an environmental impact assessment 
based on EU requirements. Moreover, a certified environmental 
management system in accordance with ISO 14001 has been 
implemented at all BMW Group production sites and all local 
legal requirements are met. ↗ Resource Management at all  locations

The DNSH requirements for Environmental Objectives III and VI 
are fulfilled for economic activity 3.3.

Transition to a circular economy  

The requirements for both economic activities of the BMW Group 
to do no significant harm to Environmental Objective IV differ for 
each stage of the value chain. We fulfil these requirements during 
the manufacturing process for BMW Group vehicles (economic 
activity 3.3) by, for example, using secondary raw materials in 
our  products,  designing  products  to  facilitate  their  recycling, 
 managing waste at our production sites in a way that prioritises 
recycling over disposal as well as registering substances of con-
cern systematically along the entire supply chain. With regard to 
the use phase and recycling of BMW Group vehicles (economic 
activity 6.5), we have set up appropriate processes to comply 
with recycling requirements and established measures for man-
aging waste during maintenance and at the end of the life cycle. 
All these criteria also form part of our comprehensive approach 
to the ↗ Transition to a circular economy.

The DNSH requirements for Environmental Objective IV are 
fulfilled for economic activities 3.3 and 6.5.

Pollution prevention  
and control 

The requirements to do no significant harm to Environmental 
Objective V differ considerably for economic activity 3.3 and eco-
nomic activity 6.5.

With regard to economic activity 3.3, the BMW Group has estab-
lished corresponding processes which aim to monitor and ensure 
legal compliance with any prohibitions and limits relating to the 
use of chemical substances at vehicle level. All substances used 
by the BMW Group are in compliance with national and  European 
laws. The use of any other substances, such as those classified 
under the CLP Regulation which go beyond current prohibitions 
established  in  applicable  legislation  (including  the  REACH 

 Regulation), is reviewed. Substitutes are sought for substances 
if their use cannot be avoided owing to current societal needs, 
taking  into  account  factors  such  as  economic  and  technical 
 requirements.

Never the less, it is not possible to meet all criteria to do no sig-
nificant harm to Environmental Objective V in the case of eco-
nomic  activity  6.5.  Current  PHEV  models  under  50 g  CO2/km 
WLTP offered by the BMW Group and other manufacturers may 
make a significant contribution as defined by the EU Taxonomy. 
However, manufacturer specifications for air pollutant emissions 
in real driving conditions (real driving emissions, RDE) cannot be 
declared as 80 % of the limit as required by the EU Taxonomy 
with reference to table 2 in the notes to the Clean Vehicles Direc-
tive, due to potentially extreme driving situations. All PHEVs in 
the vehicle portfolio for economic activity 6.5 must therefore be 
considered as not Taxonomy-aligned, even if they meet these 
specifications in everyday driving situations.

For the remaining BEV in the BMW Group’s vehicle portfolio, 
 further deductions have to be made in the context of economic 
activity 6.5. In the case of individual models in light of the require-
ments for rolling resistance coefficients for tyres and in particular 
the external rolling noise of tyres. Owing to the limited availability 
of data, the eligibility of the models concerned is calculated in a 
simplified manner based on the tyres approved for these models, 
weighted by their purchase volumes and take rates.

The DNSH requirements for Environmental Objective V are ful-
filled for economic activity 3.3; however, not all are fulfilled for 
economic activity 6.5. 

 
 
  
 
  
 
  
83

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

EU Taxonomy

Minimum safeguards
In addition to making sure that no significant harm is caused to 
the other environmental objectives, it must also be ensured that 
the organisation carrying out the economic activities has estab-
lished minimum safeguards. These require the implementation 
of processes to ensure compliance with due diligence obligations 
both within an organisation and in the stages of the upstream 
and downstream value chain that have been outsourced. Spe-
cifically, this refers to compliance with human rights and regula-
tions on  bribery, corruption, taxation and fair competition. In its 
↗ Policy statement on respect for human rights and environment-related 
standards, the BMW Group has, among other things, committed 
to compliance with the following standards for minimum safe-
guards  as  defined  in  Article  18  of  the Taxonomy  Regulation: 
 Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) 
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the UN Guiding Princi-
ples on Business and Human Rights and the Ten Principles of 
the UN Global Compact, which we signed back in 2001. 
↗ Purchasing and supplier network, ↗ Compliance and human rights

expenditure  for  Environmental  Objective  II  “Climate  change 
 adaptation” are a subset of the values for Environmental Objec-
tive I “Climate change mitigation”. This approach avoids double 
counting of revenues, capital expenditure and operating expend-
iture when determining the KPI in the numerator across multiple 
economic activities.

This allocator is used for capital expenditure on property, plant 
and equipment (including right-of-use assets), intangible assets 
and expenditure on research and development for economic 
activity 3.3, and for capital expenditure on leased products for 
economic activity 6.5. For operating expenditure, the formula is 
also applied to non-capitalised development costs. 

In the case of capital expenditure, all Taxonomy-eligible expend-
iture is allocated to the two economic activities 3.3 and 6.5. In 
most cases, values from financial data were allocated directly to 
the  economic  activities  for  all  three  performance  indicators, 
based for example on the drivetrain or the vehicle model. In the 
remaining cases, an allocation mechanism was used for each 
economic activity and each performance indicator. For Taxon-
omy-eligible  and Taxonomy-aligned  capital  expenditure,  the 
 allocator  is  based  on  long-term Taxonomy-aligned  revenues 
generated from the automobile and motorcycle business for eco-
nomic activity 3.3 and on the Taxonomy-aligned financing volume 
for  new  customers  in  the  current  financial year  for  economic 
 activity 6.5:

For other operating expenditure (non-capitalised right-of-use 
assets (lessee), maintenance/repair expenses) relating to eco-
nomic activity 3.3, the allocator is based on the Taxonomy-aligned 
revenues generated from the automobile and motorcycle busi-
ness in the reporting period. 

Interpretation of the performance indicators for 
reporting year 2022
The following overview tables summarise the performance indi-
cators revenues, capital expenditure and operating expenditure 
resulting from Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned eco-
nomic activities of the BMW Group.

The minimum safeguard requirements are met.

 — BMW Group perspective

EU Taxonomy performance indicators
Please refer to the remarks in the glossary for the definition and 
calculation of the Taxonomy-specific performance indicators rev-
enues, capital expenditure and operating expenditure. ↗ Glossary

The proportion of revenues, capital expenditure and operating 
expenditure relating to eligible and non-eligible economic activ-
ities are shown in each case as an aggregate percentage for the 
BMW Group. Only Taxonomy-eligible revenues, capital expend-
iture  and  operating  expenditure  as  listed  for  Environmental 
Objective I “Climate change mitigation” are disclosed, given that 
Taxonomy-eligible revenues, capital expenditure and operating 

 — Allocator for economic activity 3.3: (BEV + PHEV (<50g)) x 

Automotive segment revenues (2023–2028)

 — Allocator for economic activity 6.5: (DNSH alignment factor 
x BEV) x proportion of financing volume attributable to new 
customer contracts (2022)

For capital expenditure, the allocator is based on detailed long-
term corporate planning for the next six years, as approved each 
year by the Board of Management and Supervisory Board.

Taxonomy-aligned revenues of the BMW Group amounted to 
€ 15,705 million, corresponding to 11 % of total Group reve-
nues. The Taxonomy-aligned share of capital expenditure 
was 21 % (€ 5,100 million). Operating expenditure incurred 
for  Taxonomy-aligned  economic  activities  amounted  to 
€ 1,661 million, corresponding to almost 29 % of Taxonomy- 
eligible operating expenditure.

 — Economic activity 3.3, “Manufacture of low carbon tech-

nologies for transport”
The Taxonomy-aligned share of revenues generated by the 
Automotive and Motorcycle segments corresponded to 10.7 % 
(economic activity 3.3 “Manufacture of low-carbon technol-
ogies for transport”) of total Group revenues. As a percentage 
of external revenues of the two segments, the  Taxonomy- 
aligned share rises to 14 %. ↗ Segment information 

  
84

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

EU Taxonomy

Additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equip-
ment  of  the  BMW  Group  were  more  than  19 % Taxonomy- 
aligned. This proportion more than doubles to 43 % in relation 
to additions recorded by the Automotive and Motorcycle seg-
ments. The latter highlights the high proportion of Taxonomy- 
aligned capital expenditure of the Automotive segment. 

 — Economic activity 6.5, “Transport by motorbikes, passenger 

cars and light commercial vehicles”
The Taxonomy-aligned  shares  for  the  three  performance 
indicators were at a low single-digit level for the Financial 
Services segment. This was due to the fact that – compared 
to the Automotive segment – there is a time lag before the 
effects of the vehicle fleet electrification ramp-up are felt in 
the financing and leasing lines of business. A further reason 
is the stricter DNSH requirements for economic activity 6.5, 
in  particular  those  relating  to  environmental  objective  V 
“Pollution prevention and control”, which lead to the exclu-
sion of all PHEV and a significant restriction in the recognition 
of BEV in the scope of EU Taxonomy reporting (for details see 
Section “Avoidance of significant harm”). In addition, with 
economic activity 6.5, third-party brands can only be included 
in the vehicle portfolio under restrictive conditions, such as 
for  the  purpose  of  assigning  tyre  categories  or  WLTP 
 emissions values as part of the process of testing compliance 
with the DNSH criteria. As a result, no specific deductions 
can be allocated, with the consequence that the models con-
cerned must be excluded from the scope of reporting on Tax-
onomy alignment. 

The growing share of zero-emissions vehicles, the development 
and production methods used, and – where applicable – contri-
butions made to other environmental objectives as yet to be 
defined are expected to lead to an increase in Taxonomy-aligned 
revenues, capital expenditure and operating expenditure. Due to 
the high level of investment in the transformation of our business 
activities, for example in the electrification of our vehicles and 
research into alternative drivetrains, these economic activities 
have the potential to become Taxonomy-aligned over time. Over-
all, we anticipate that the proportion of Taxonomy-aligned eco-
nomic activities will steadily rise as a result of the increasing 
electrification of our product portfolio. ↗ Strategy

The contribution of the two economic activities considered for 
Environmental Objective II is subsumed in the contribution re-
ported for Environmental Objective I. Regardless of the taxonomy 
criteria, the BMW Group regularly and comprehensively addresses 
risks arising from climate change and their potential impact on its 
locations and supply chains. 
↗ DNSH adaptation to climate change, ↗ TCFD climate risks

As the overview tables from Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178 
do not provide a detailed picture of the BMW Group’s business 
model per economic activity, the following table provides detailed 
information about the three performance indicators for both eco-
nomic activities. 

Voluntary additional information on the Taxonomy-aligned share per economic activity*

Revenues 2022

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport (3.3)

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles (6.5)

Total

Capital expenditure 2022

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport (3.3)

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles (6.5)

Total

Operating expenditure 2022

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport (3.3)

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles (6.5)

Total

in € million 

in € million 

in %

by activity

of which  
Taxonomy-aligned

Proportion

109,029

33,581

142,610

15,264

441 

15,705

14.0 

1.3 

11.0

by activity

of which  
Taxonomy-aligned

Proportion

10,659

13,452

24,111

4,596 

504 

5,100

43.1 

3.7 

21.2

by activity

of which  
Taxonomy-aligned

Proportion

5,584

232

5,816

1,655

6

1,661

29.6

2.5

28.6

*  Taxonomy-aligned share calculated with denominator as the sum of Taxonomy-aligned, non-Taxonomy-aligned and Taxonomy-capable values of the respective economic activity.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
85

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

EU Taxonomy

Contextual KPI information related to Taxonomy-aligned economic activities

in € million 

Revenues

Sales of products, related goods and revenue of service contracts

Revenues related to financial services

Total

Capital expenditure 

Economic activity 3.3

Property, plant and equipment 1

Development costs

Leased products

Total

Economic activity 6.5

Property, plant and equipment 1

Development costs

Leased products

Total

Total

Operating expenditure

Economic activity 3.3

Development costs – not capitalised 2

Right-of-use assets (lessee) – not capitalised

Maintenance/repair expenses

Total

Economic activity 6.5

Development costs – not capitalised 2

Right-of-use assets (lessee) – not capitalised

Maintenance/repair expenses

Total

Total

Revenue  includes  small  amounts  from  Taxonomy-aligned 
 activities related to the BMW Group’s Company car programme. 
These Company cars are generally transferred to the BMW Group’s 
 external sales programme within twelve months after a short 
period of  in-house use. 

2022

15,264

441

15,705

2022

3,554

1,042

0

4,595

1

0

503

504

5,100

2022

1,485

14

156

1,655

3

0

3

6

1,661

1  Including intangible assets and right-of-use assets from lessee relationships.
2  Including Spotlight Automotive Ltd.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
86

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

EU Taxonomy

CapEx plan for Environmental Objective I  
“Climate change mitigation”
A CapEx plan is required to be drawn up for capital expenditure 
and operating expenditure that expand Taxonomy-aligned eco-
nomic activities or allow Taxonomy- eligible economic activities 
to become Taxonomy-aligned. This plan has been approved by 
the Board of Management of BMW AG and covers a seven-year 
period (2022–2028). The CapEx plan covers capital expenditure 
and operating expenditure for the reporting year and planned 
capital expenditure and operating expenditure (only non-capi-

talised development costs) for 2023–2028 for economic activities 
3.3 and 6.5. The selected future period corresponds to the de-
tailed long-term corporate planning of the BMW Group and con-
tains various investment measures with different implementation 
times (e.g. electrification of the vehicle fleet, model revisions, 
structural  investments  in  production  sites).  The  CapEx  plan 
 earmarks  €  55,989  million  for  economic  activity  3.3 
(with  €  6,081  million  attributable  to  financial year  2022)  and 
€ 16,520 million for economic activity 6.5 (with € 507 million 
 attributable to financial year 2022). 

CapEx plan for transformation into or expansion of Taxonomy-aligned economic activities

in € million

Economic activities

Code(s)

2022

2023–2028

Total

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles

Total

3.3

6.5

6,081

507

6,588

49,908

16,013

65,921

55,989

16,520

72,509

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
87

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

EU Taxonomy

The following tables provide an overview of the three performance indicators for EU Taxonomy in the 2022 reporting year:

Revenues

Substantial contribution criteria 2

DNSH criteria  
(“Do no significantly harm”)

n
o

i
t
a
g

i
t
i

m
e
g
n
a
h
c

e
t
a
m

i
l

C

r
e
v
o
n
r
u
t

f
o

n
o

i
t
r
o
p
o
r
P

e
g
n
a
h
c

e
t
a
m

i
l

C

n
o

i
t
a
t
p
a
d
a

s
e
c
r
u
o
s
e
 r

e
n

i
r
a
m

d
n
a

r
e
t
a
W

y
m
o
n
o
c
e

r
a

l

u
c
r
i

C

d
n
a

n
o

i
t
n
e
v
e
r
p

n
o

i
t
u

l
l

o
P

l

o
r
t
n
o
c

d
n
a

y
t
i

s
r
e
v

i

d
o

i

B

s
m
e
t
s
y
s
o
c
 e

n
o

i
t
a
g

i
t
i

m
e
g
n
a
h
c

e
t
a
m

i
l

C

e
g
n
a
h
c

e
t
a
m

i
l

C

n
o

i
t
a
t
p
a
d
a

s
e
c
r
u
o
s
e
 r

e
n

i
r
a
m

d
n
a

r
e
t
a
W

y
m
o
n
o
c
e

r
a

l

u
c
r
i

C

d
n
a

n
o

i
t
n
e
v
e
r
p

n
o

i
t
u

l
l

o
P

l

o
r
t
n
o
c

d
n
a

y
t
i

s
r
e
v

i

d
o

i

B

s
m
e
t
s
y
s
o
c
 e

.
p
o
r
p

d
e
n
g

i
l

a
-
y
m
o
n
o
x
a
T

3
N
r
a
e
y

r
e
v
o
n
r
u
t

f
o

.

p
o
r
p

d
e
n
g

i
l

a
-
y
m
o
n
o
x
a
T

1
-
N

r
a
e
y

r
e
v
o
n
r
u
t

f
o

l

a
n
o

i
t
i

s
n
a
r
T
(

y
r
o
g
e
t
a
C

)
y
t
i

v

i
t
c
a

g
n

i
l

b
a
n
E
(

y
r
o
g
e
t
a
C

)
y
t
i

v

i
t
c
a

s
d
r
a
u
g
e
f
a
s
m
u
m
n
M

i

i

%

%

%

%

%

%

%

Y/N

Y/N

Y/N

Y/N

Y/N

Y/N

Y/N

%

%

E 

T

1

)
s
(
e
d
o
C

r
e
v
o
n
r
u
t

e
t
u

l

o
s
b
A

in € 
million

Economic activities

A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES

A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities 
( Taxonomy-aligned)

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport

3.3

15,264

10.7

100.0

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light 
commercial vehicles

Turnover of environmentally sustainable activities 
(Taxonomy-aligned)

A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally 
sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)

6.5

441

0.3

100.0

15,705

11.0

100.0

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport

3.3

81,945

57.5

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and  
 light commercial vehicles

6.5

32,603

22.9

Turnover of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally 
sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)

Total A.1 + A.2

B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES

Turnover of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities (B)

Total (A+B)

114,548

80.3

130,253

91.3

12,356

8.7

142,610 100.0

0

0

0

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

10.7

n/a

E 

0.3

n/a

11.0

n/a

n/a

11.0

1  With reference to ANNEX I of Delegated Regulation (EU) of 4 June 2021 (EU 2021/2139).
2  Environmental objectives III–VI not applicable to financial year 2022.
3  Taxonomy-aligned share of turnover per economic activity amounts to 14.0 % for 3.3 and 1.3 % for 6.5 ↗ Voluntary additional information on Taxonomy-aligned share per economic activity.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
88

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

EU Taxonomy

Capital expenditure 

e
r
u
t
i

d
n
e
p
x
e

l

a
t
i

p
a
c

e
t
u

l

o
s
b
A

in € 
million

1

)
s
(
e
d
o
C

Economic activities

A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES

A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities 
( Taxonomy-aligned)

Substantial contribution criteria 2

DNSH criteria  
(“Do no significantly harm”)

n
o

i
t
a
g

i
t
i

m
e
g
n
a
h
c

e
t
a
m

i
l

C

e
r
u
t
i

d
n
e
p
x
e

l

a
t
i

p
a
c

f
o

n
o

i
t
r
o
p
o
r
P

e
g
n
a
h
c

e
t
a
m

i
l

C

n
o

i
t
a
t
p
a
d
a

s
e
c
r
u
o
s
e
 r

e
n

i
r
a
m

d
n
a

r
e
t
a
W

y
m
o
n
o
c
e

r
a

l

u
c
r
i

C

s
m
e
t
s
y
s
o
c
 e
d
n
a

y
t
i

s
r
e
v

i

d
o

i

B

d
n
a

n
o

i
t
n
e
v
e
r
p

n
o

i
t
u

l
l

o
P

l

o
r
t
n
o
c

n
o

i
t
a
g

i
t
i

m
e
g
n
a
h
c

e
t
a
m

i
l

C

s
m
e
t
s
y
s
o
c
 e
d
n
a

y
t
i

s
r
e
v

i

d
o

i

B

d
n
a

n
o

i
t
n
e
v
e
r
p

n
o

i
t
u

l
l

o
P

l

o
r
t
n
o
c

e
g
n
a
h
c

e
t
a
m

i
l

C

n
o

i
t
a
t
p
a
d
a

s
e
c
r
u
o
s
e
 r

e
n

i
r
a
m

d
n
a

r
e
t
a
W

y
m
o
n
o
c
e

r
a

l

u
c
r
i

C

l

a
t
i

p
a
c

d
e
n
g

i
l

a
-
y
m
o
n
o
x
a
T

3
N
r
a
e
y

e
r
u
t
i

d
n
e
p
x
e

l

a
t
i

p
a
c

d
e
n
g

i
l

a
-
y
m
o
n
o
x
a
T

1
-
N

r
a
e
y

e
r
u
t
i

d
n
e
p
x
e

)
y
t
i

v

i
t
c
a

g
n

i
l

b
a
n
E
(

y
r
o
g
e
t
a
C

l

a
n
o

i
t
i

s
n
a
r
T
(

y
r
o
g
e
t
a
C

)
y
t
i

v

i
t
c
a

s
d
r
a
u
g
e
f
a
s
m
u
m
n
M

i

i

%

%

%

%

%

%

%

Y/N

Y/N

Y/N

Y/N

Y/N

Y/N

Y/N

%

%

E

T

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport

3.3

4,595

19.1

100.0

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light 
commercial vehicles

Capital expenditure of environmentally sustainable 
activities (Taxonomy-aligned)

A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally 
sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)

6.5

504

2.1

100.0

5,100

21.2

100.0

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport

3.3

6,032

25.0

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and  
 light commercial vehicles

Capital expenditure of Taxonomy-eligible but not 
environmentally sustainable activities  
(not Taxonomy-aligned activities)

Total A.1 + A.2

B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES

6.5

12,948

53.7

18,980

78.7

24,080

99.9

Capital expenditure of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities (B)

31

0.1

Total (A+B)

24,111

100.0

0

0

0

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

19.1

n/a

E 

2.1

n/a

21.2

n/a

n/a

21.2

1  With reference to ANNEX I of Delegated Regulation (EU) of 4 June 2021 (EU 2021/2139).
2  Environmental objectives III–VI not applicable to financial year 2022.
3  Taxonomy-aligned share of capital expenditure per economic activity amounts to 43.1 % for 3.3 and 3.7 % for 6.5 ↗ Voluntary additional information on Taxonomy-aligned share per economic activity.

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
89

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

EU Taxonomy

Operating expenditure   

1

)
s
(
e
d
o
C

g
n

i
t
a
r
e
p
o

e
t
u

l

o
s
b
A

e
r
u
t
i

d
n
e
p
x
e

in € 
million

Economic activities

A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES

A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities 
( Taxonomy-aligned)

Substantial contribution criteria 2

DNSH criteria  
(“Do no significantly harm”)

g
n

i
t
a
r
e
p
o

f
o

n
o

i
t
r
o
p
o
r
P

e
r
u
t
i

d
n
e
p
x
e

n
o

i
t
a
g

i
t
i

m
e
g
n
a
h
c

e
t
a
m

i
l

C

e
g
n
a
h
c

e
t
a
m

i
l

C

n
o

i
t
a
t
p
a
d
a

s
e
c
r
u
o
s
e
 r

e
n

i
r
a
m

d
n
a

r
e
t
a
W

y
m
o
n
o
c
e

r
a

l

u
c
r
i

C

s
m
e
t
s
y
s
o
c
 e
d
n
a

y
t
i

s
r
e
v

i

d
o

i

B

d
n
a

n
o

i
t
n
e
v
e
r
p

n
o

i
t
u

l
l

o
P

l

o
r
t
n
o
c

n
o

i
t
a
g

i
t
i

m
e
g
n
a
h
c

e
t
a
m

i
l

C

s
m
e
t
s
y
s
o
c
 e
d
n
a

y
t
i

s
r
e
v

i

d
o

i

B

d
n
a

n
o

i
t
n
e
v
e
r
p

n
o

i
t
u

l
l

o
P

l

o
r
t
n
o
c

e
g
n
a
h
c

e
t
a
m

i
l

C

n
o

i
t
a
t
p
a
d
a

s
e
c
r
u
o
s
e
 r

e
n

i
r
a
m

d
n
a

r
e
t
a
W

y
m
o
n
o
c
e

r
a

l

u
c
r
i

C

s
d
r
a
u
g
e
f
a
s
m
u
m
n
M

i

i

g
n

i
t
a
r
e
p
o

d
e
n
g

i
l

a
-
y
m
o
n
o
x
a
T

3
N
r
a
e
y

e
r
u
t
i

d
n
e
p
x
e

g
n

i
t
a
r
e
p
o

d
e
n
g

i
l

a
-
y
m
o
n
o
x
a
T

1
-
N

r
a
e
y

e
r
u
t
i

d
n
e
p
x
e

)
y
t
i

v

i
t
c
a

g
n

i
l

b
a
n
E
(

y
r
o
g
e
t
a
C

l

a
n
o

i
t
i

s
n
a
r
T
(

y
r
o
g
e
t
a
C

)
y
t
i

v

i
t
c
a

%

%

%

%

%

%

%

Y/N

Y/N

Y/N

Y/N

Y/N

Y/N

Y/N

%

%

E

T

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport

3.3

1,655

28.5

100.0

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light 
commercial vehicles

6.5

6

0.1

100.0

Operating expenditure of environmentally sustainable 
activities (Taxonomy-aligned)

A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally 
sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)

1,661

28.6

100.0

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport

3.3

3,929

67.6

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and  
 light commercial vehicles

6.5

226

3.9

Operating expenditure of Taxonomy-eligible but not 
environmentally sustainable activities  
(not Taxonomy-aligned activities)

Total A.1 + A.2

B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES

Operating expenditure of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities 
(B)

Total (A+B)

4,155

71.4

5,816

100.0

0

0

5,816

100.0

0

0

0

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

28.5

n/a

E

0.1

n/a

28.6

n/a

n/a

28.6

1  With reference to ANNEX I of Delegated Regulation (EU) of 4 June 2021 (EU 2021/2139).
2  Environmental objectives III–VI not applicable to financial year 2022.
3  Taxonomy-aligned share of operating expenditure per economic activity amounts to 29.6 % for 3.3 and 2.5 % for 6.5 ↗ Voluntary additional information on Taxonomy-aligned share per economic activity.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
90

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

Products

PRODUCTS

90 

Innovation,  Digitali sation and   Customer 
 Orientation

95  Product Quality and Safety

97  Carbon Emissions

100  Electromobility

P R O D U C T S 

I N N O V AT I O N , 
 D I G I TA L I S AT I O N   A N D 
 C U S T O M E R    O R I E N TAT I O N

 industry, which is being driven forward at a considerable pace 
with this new generation of vehicles. The BMW Group has already 
demonstrated the great potential of the circular economy princi-
ple with its BMW i Vision Circular. The BMW i Vision Dee now 
illustrates the impact that digital technology will have on driving 
pleasure in years to come.

The BMW Group’s innovations are characterised by their con-
sistent orientation towards customer needs and the use of digi-
tal solutions. During the year under report, numerous innovations 
again resulted in processes being optimised, products improved 
and new technologies introduced to make everyday life easier 
for our customers. 

Vision UI/UX: user interaction and the user interface of 
the future
With its BMW i Vision Dee concept vehicle, the BMW Group is 
demonstrating how interaction between people and automobiles 
could look like going forward. “Dee” is a sporty, elegant mid-size 
sedan that epitomises the core values of the BMW brand in a 
new, reduced design language. It is the most recent affirmation 
of our digital expertise and stands for Digital Emotional Experi-
ence. “Dee” is yet another milestone on the road to the NEUE 
KLASSE and forms an innovative link between everyday reality 
and the virtual world. As of 2025, with the NEUE KLASSE the 
BMW Group will be taking a major technological leap forward and 
creating innovative drivetrain and digital modules for all relevant 
classes of vehicle across the BMW model range. Electrification, 
digitalisation and circularity are the key elements that signify the 
transformation  currently  taking  place  within  the  automotive 

MINI Concept Aceman 
The Concept Aceman marks the dawn of a new era for the MINI 
brand. The crossover model is a preview of a completely new type 
of vehicle that is destined to occupy the position between the 
MINI Cooper and the MINI Countryman in the model family going 
forward. This concept vehicle reflects how MINI is reinventing 
itself to be part of an all-electric future and what the brand stands 
for by creating an electrified go-kart eeling, digital features for all 
the senses and a keen focus on minimising its ecological foot-
print.

“Charismatic Simplicity” – the new design language – pares back 
the look of the MINI models of the future to the essentials. The 
exterior of the MINI Concept Aceman features a prominent front 
end with an octagonal, closed, illuminated radiator grille element, 
an athletic shoulder section and a powerful rear fitted with ver-
tically  arranged  taillights. The  interior  is  greatly  reduced  and 
 focuses on a round OLED display that enables the driver to 
personalise the sound, interaction, projection and light via three 
“Experience Modes”. Like all future MINI models, the MINI Con-
cept Aceman is designed completely without leather, is practi-
cally chrome-free and features a variety of sustainable materi-
als.  

91

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

Products

Digitalisation – an opportunity for innovation and 
customer orientation
Digitalisation is a key factor when it comes to keeping the vehicle 
“fresh” and therefore up to date throughout its life cycle. Since 
the launch of Operating System 7 in 2018, a Remote Software 
Upgrade (i.e. updating the vehicle’s software remotely) has been 
available for BMW vehicles. In addition to its remote software 
upgrades, the Group is continually releasing new functions and 
features. Since autumn 2022, for example, a service for conven-
iently paying parking fees has been available in BMW vehicles 
with Operating Systems 7 and 8 in Germany and Austria – and 
other countries are set to follow. Upon arriving in a parking zone, 
the vehicle automatically detects whether the service is available 
at that location and displays the payment option accordingly.

BMW Theatre Screen

The BMW Theatre Screen is much more than just a screen 

fitted in the rear of the new BMW 7 Series: it raises the bar 
in terms of in-car entertainment and creates a cinema- like 

entertainment  experience  for  back-seat  passengers. 

 During  a  journey,  the  31.3-inch  (79.5  cm)  display  can 

stream popular apps via the vehicle’s 5G connectivity and 

pre-installed  Amazon  Fire  TV  (depending  on  the  coun-

try-specific Fire TV offering; in China, Huawei and Iqiyi).

With “Functions-on-Demand”, additional functions can also be 
bought in, long after the vehicle has been purchased, or even 
booked for a specific period.

The vehicle as a digital experience
In 2021, the BMW Group launched its Operating System 8, fea-
turing a new display and control system. Since then, every new 
BMW model has been equipped with this flexible, scalable info-
tainment operating system. Currently, the latest BMW 7 Series is 
presenting the full capabilities of Operating System 8, ranging 
from “Augmented View” in the information display to a genuine 
cinema experience with the “BMW Theatre Screen”. The “My 
Modes” function can be used to create a holistic user experience 
within the vehicle by changing vehicle features as well as displays 
and interior ambience, depending on the “My Mode” selected. 
The My Mode “Digital Art” feature brings digital art to the BMW 
Curved Display for the first time. 

One key advantage of BMW Operating System 8 is its scalability 
across all classes of vehicle. Since its launch, the system has 
been rolled out across the compact, mid-size and luxury classes 
and systematically enhanced in line with customer demand. The 
focus is on new entertainment offerings such as the integration 
of AirConsole and the expansion to include third-party apps via 
the Faurecia Aptoide app store. 

Digitalisation also enables innovations, simplifications and ad-
vances outside the vehicle. With the My BMW App and the MINI 
App, which are now being used by over nine million customers 
worldwide on their smartphones, it is possible, for example, to 
plan travel routes, request information on the vehicle’s condition, 
or control the charging process.

Software expertise at the BMW Group
Twenty years ago, the BMW Group began developing its own 
software with the founding of BMW Car IT. Since then, the Com-
pany has continued to expand its teams of developers to form a 
global network. Beginning with the Ulm site in southern Germany, 
its software expertise has been bolstered by the joint ventures 

Remote software upgrades*

The  software  architecture,  which  has  been  successively 

developed over the last 15 years, enables BMW to install 

software  on  all  control  units  in  the  vehicle’s  electrical 

 system within a matter of minutes. Over 30 BMW models 

worldwide  can  now  be  upgraded  using  this  method.  The 

last remote software upgrade in 2022 was already acces-

sible to 3.8 million BMW Group vehicles. The free upgrades 

include  improvements  and  feature  enhancements  in  the 

areas of infotainment, driving, drivetrain, driver assistance, 

convenience and safety. 

*  The availability and content of remote software upgrades depend on the 

country, model, equipment and software version installed.

92

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

Products

Critical TechWorks in Portugal and BA TechWorks in China. Over-
all, the BMW Group employs more than 8,500 people in IT and 
software development.

Range of innovative mobility services
Together with the Mercedes-Benz Group, the BMW Group offers 
mobility services via the YOUR NOW joint venture, which was 
established in 2019. The range of services provides customers 
with access to various modes of transport other than their own 
vehicle. 

As Europe’s largest multimodal mobility platform, FREE NOW 
combines the entire range of various forms of mobility in one app, 
enabling registered users in European cities to reach their des-
tination both swiftly and according to their needs. Apart from taxi 
cabs and private ride services, various types of e-scooters as 
well as car-sharing vehicles can also be booked via the FREE 
NOW app. Moreover, FREE NOW consistently promotes the elec-
trification of the current fleet. By 2025, the share of electrically 
powered trips is projected to increase to 50 % and users are set 
to travel fully electrically as of 2030. During the year under report, 
YOUR NOW Holding sold the car-sharing provider SHARE NOW 
to  Stellantis.  Car-sharing  services  from various  providers  will 
continue to be offered via FREE NOW.

Since July 2022, the BMW Group’s range of mobility services has 
been enlarged to include the BMW Add-On Mobility app in co-
operation with SIXT. Among other benefits, the app gives BMW 
and MINI customers prioritised access to rental vehicles in Ger-
many, Belgium and Luxembourg. Furthermore, the BMW Group 
offers its business customers and fleet operators individualised 
mobility solutions with a focus on flexible, keyless vehicle use 
and  based  on  digital,  data-driven  vehicle  management  that 
boosts process efficiency and enhances the customer  experience.

The BMW Group’s range of services also includes comprehensive 
charging solutions for the home, the workplace and on the road.  
↗ Expanding charging infrastructure and enabling faster charging

Digital connectivity and automation
Automated functions and digitally connected vehicles can help 
cut emissions, reduce the risk of accidents and ease traffic con-
gestion. The BMW Group is therefore firmly committed to making 
further progress in this area – with a clear focus on customer 
convenience and safety.

The BMW Group has been pooling the development of assistance 
and automation functions at its Autonomous Driving Campus 
north of Munich since 2017. It also operates research facilities in 
both China and the USA, enabling it to include its two largest 
markets in terms of traffic-related as well as traffic law specifics 
right from the outset. In order to take the diverse demands placed 
on automated driving systems into account from the beginning, 
the BMW Group also has a globally unique driving simulation 
centre in Munich, making it possible to test driver assistance 
systems and automated driving functions in a realistic setting.

One of the many successes to come from our development work 
is the innovative technology toolkit, which is integrated in the 
BMW iX¹ as well as in the new BMW 7 Series and is being rolled 
out successively across the entire range of vehicles. The toolkit 
excels in terms of its computing power, its highly efficient sensor 
technology, the continuous improvement of the software via da-
ta-driven development and the use of artificial intelligence (AI). 
It also forms the basis for our upcoming automated features, 
including a highly automated Level 3 function for the new BMW 
7 Series.

When it comes to developing the next generation of software 
solutions for automated driving, the BMW Group has been col-
laborating with Qualcomm Technologies and Arriver since 2022. 
Together, we aim to develop technologies ranging from New Car 
Assessment Program (NCAP) solutions to advanced Level 2 driv-
ing assistance systems and the Level 3 functionalities of highly 
automated driving. Since 2021, the BMW Group has also been 
involved in the Munich-based research project TEMPUS², which 
explores questions of technical feasibility.

Safety of automated smart systems
The BMW Group’s highest priority is to ensure that its automat-
ed systems operate in a safe, secure manner. It is therefore pro-
moting the development of an industry-wide ISO standard for 
highly and fully automated driving functions, a project it has been 
involved in right from an early stage. The work has culminated in 
an ISO Technical Report, which is due to be published as an ISO 
Technical Specification in the course of 2023, and sets out uni-
form technical standards for safe automated driving.

Drivetrain technologies of the future
When developing drivetrain technologies, the BMW Group focus-
es on the needs of its customers worldwide. For this reason we 
are constantly developing existing drivetrain technologies in the 
interests of efficiency, decarbonisation and resource conserva-
tion. At the same time, we continue to research new drivetrain 
technologies with the ultimate aim of developing them for series 
production. 

New generation of battery cells
High-performance, innovative and sustainably produced battery 
cells are the key to success for individual electric mobility. With 
its NEUE KLASSE models, the BMW Group will be entering a new 
era of e-mobility as of 2025, using newly developed round battery 
cells  for  the  first  time  that  are  ideally  suited  to  the  new 
 architecture. 

The sixth generation of our lithium-ion cells represents a giant 
technological leap forward compared with the previous genera-
tion, effectively increasing energy density by more than 20 %, 
charging speed by up to 30 % and range by around 30 %. The 
carbon emissions generated by cell production will be reduced 
by up to 60 %. 

The BMW Group has placed orders worth a double-digit billion 
euro amount prior to the production of the new BMW battery cells. 

1  ↗ Consumption and Carbon Disclosures.
2  Munich test site – pilot test of automated driving in urban traffic.

93

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

Products

Benefiting from the extensive in-house expertise gained from the 
Group’s own Cell Manufacturing Competence Centre, the team 
consisting of Development, Production and Purchasing has suc-
ceeded in significantly cutting the total cost of the high-voltage 
storage system, thanks to the new battery cell and the innovative 
integration concept for the storage technology developed by the 
BMW Group. Based on current market assumptions, the cost can 
potentially be reduced by up to 50 % compared to the current 
fifth generation. 

Hydrogen fuel cell technology
During the period under report, we began testing the BMW iX5 
Hydrogen with its hydrogen fuel cell drive system under everyday 
conditions. We aim to test the interaction between the CO2-free 
drivetrain, the chassis technology and the electronic systems in 
realistic situations. In order to gain further experience, a pilot fleet 
of the all-electric model has been in production since the end of 
2022. 

Hydrogen fuel cell technology has the potential to become a sus-
tainable complement to battery-powered e-drive systems. The 
technology  really  comes  into  its  own  when  a  comprehensive 
electric charging infrastructure is not available; it could also be 
deployed for long-distance use or in larger classes of vehicle. 
Depending on market requirements and developments, we in-
tend to offer the model as a series production vehicle in the sec-
ond half of this decade. 

The BMW iX5 Hydrogen is equipped with fuel cells developed in 
collaboration with the Toyota Motor Corporation. The fuel cell 
stack and the overall drive system have both been developed 
in-house. The collaboration project has been in place since 2013 
and aims to optimise the technology's suitability for everyday use 
in each company’s own series production vehicles. 

The BMW Group is supporting initiatives across Europe with the 
aim of establishing an efficient, hydrogen-based economy and 
promoting the production of green ↗ Hydrogen. 

The global network of BMW Group Technology Offices is also 
making  an  essential  contribution  to  maintaining  the  Group’s 
leading role in terms of innovation.

Inspiration and cooperation 
Good ideas often emerge when different partners work together. 
According to this principle, we are focusing on cooperations in 
which the strengths of the BMW Group complement those of 
established partners as well as innovation drivers such as start-
ups, enabling us to continue developing our innovative strengths. 

These offices are strategically positioned worldwide and focus 
on key hotspots of technology and innovation. The potential of 
new technologies is therefore being explored in pilot projects and 
transferred to the Group’s centralised teams. Whether manufac-
turing,  developing  smart  city  solutions  or  the  mobility  of  the 
 future, these Technology Offices are driving forward innovations 
that benefit the Group in all its lines of business. 

Metaverse

The virtual worlds of the Metaverse are a catalyst  for digitalisation 

world  to  master  high-rev  challenges,  similar  to  a  racing  game. 

for the BMW Group, as the use of X-Reality (VR/AR/MR) technolo-

 Integrated gaming elements, such as avoiding obstacles or col-

gies and Web 3.0 generates benefits across all areas of the value 

lecting  virtual  coins,  enhance  the  immersive  in-car  experience. 

chain.  Our holistic activities comprise the following three pillars: 

The system takes all the BMW M2’s axes of motion and rotation 

into  account.  The  vehicle  itself  becomes  the  controller,  in  this 

1.  Corporate  Metaverse  (virtualisation  of  internal  processes: 

case the fastest controller in the world.

 virtual  working  platform  for  collaboration  and  interaction, 

training and recruiting) 

2.  Commercial  Metaverse  (in  the  “digital  brand”  context,  the 

new potential for interaction becomes possible for brands and 

 customers alike) 

3.  In-Car Metaverse (offers customers new options for informa-

tion management, increased productivity, communication and 
all-round entertainment within the vehicle)

Using the mixed reality approach, which was introduced during 

the year under report, a team of engineers from  BMW M  GmbH 

has developed an immersive driving experience for the BMW M2. 

Using  XR  goggles,  drivers  can  immerse  themselves  in  a  virtual 

 
 
94

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

Products

The trend research conducted by its Technology Offices helps 
the BMW Group to predict tomorrow’s technological develop-
ments. The results are now publicly available in the ↗ Trend Radar. 
Scientific institutions, start-ups and even potential partners can 
make use of these. 

Worldwide culture of innovation 
Global dialogue with start-ups is an important means for the 
BMW Group to gain impetus. This is based on three pillars, com-
prising ↗ BMW i Ventures (through which we invest in technology 
start-ups), the MINI brand-initiated start-up ↗ Accelerator URBAN-X 
that focuses on urban living and the ↗ BMW Startup Garage (which 
serves as the BMW Group’s venture client unit and searches for 
innovations  that  represent  a  significant  benefit  for  products, 
 services, systems and processes). The aim of the programme is 
to evaluate and empower start-ups to become suppliers and 
partners. 

Shaping the future of mobility 
The BMW Group is involved in numerous research and imple-
mentation projects for developing new mobility concepts. The 
main focus is on pilot projects that improve the quality of life and 
promote more sustainable urban mobility.

For example, the BMW Group is working with the city of Munich 
to develop urban projects with the involvement of the local pop-
ulation. Among other things, this entails making more efficient 
use of the available road space, establishing new on-demand 
services, and promoting parking space management. Moreover, 
in the Berlin project ↗ “New Mobility Berlin” we are jointly develop-
ing  solutions  to  meet  people’s  changing  mobility  needs  and 
 address the shortage of space in a growing city. The project is 
helping to create shared spaces in order to provide, for example, 
mobility stations for car sharing or rental bikes. Based on a long-
term cooperation with the City of Rotterdam, we are also working 
on numerous pilot projects; from the better networking of differ-
ent modes of transport (intermodality) to the more efficient use 
of charging infrastructure.

Vehicles as part of the power grid
The BMW Group is conducting its own research and development 
work to integrate electrified vehicles in the power grid, thereby 
contributing  to  the  energy  transition,  grid  stability,  and  the 
 carbon-free  operation  of  electrified vehicles. The  focus  is  on 
 technologies such as smart charging, a key component of the 
↗ BMW ChargeForward service, which enables customers in numer-
ous states of the USA to synchronise their charging behaviour 
with  the  current  grid  load  and  the  use  of  renewable  energy. 
 Another cross-sector initiative is the so-called  ↗ Bidirectional 
Charging  Management (BCM) research project, which is being sub-
sidised by the German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and 
Climate  Action.  BCM  transforms  electric vehicles  into  mobile 
 energy storage devices and thus into a part of the energy grid in 
that their batteries can not only absorb electricity, but at the same 
time  feed  it  in  the  opposite  direction  into  the  grid  operator’s 
 power supply. In the V2G (Vehicle to Grid) project together with 
the City of Rotterdam, the BMW Group is also conducting research 
into using the batteries of electrified vehicles to store surplus 
renewable energy – with a positive impact on the environment 
and energy efficiency as well as cutting costs for customers. 

Worldwide cooperations and partnerships 
To ensure its long-term success, the BMW Group enters into 
targeted cooperations and partnerships with companies from 
various industries with the aim of pooling expertise and imple-
menting innovations as swiftly as possible. Several of the Group’s 
largest collaborations and investments are listed below: 

At the beginning of 2022, the BMW Group, Qualcomm Technol-
ogies  and  Arriver  Software  jointly  entered  into  a  long-term 
cooperation to develop solutions for next-generation automated 
driving and signed an agreement to that effect. The three com-
panies  aim  to  develop  technologies  ranging  from  New  Car 
Assessment Program (NCAP) solutions and advanced Level 2 
driving assistance systems to the Level 3 functionalities of high-
ly automated driving. The joint development of software functions 
is based on BMW’s current software toolkit for automated driving. 
Within the terms of the cooperation, more than 1,400 specialists 
will work together at various locations worldwide, including sites 
in Germany, the USA, Sweden, China, Romania and the BMW 
AD Test Centre Sokolov in the Czech Republic.

Since the joint acquisition of the HERE mapping service by the 
BMW Group, the Mercedes-Benz Group and Audi in 2015, the 
three partners have been working on high-precision digital maps 
that can be linked to real-time vehicle data. These maps will form 
the foundation for the next generation of location-based services 
and are also the basis for new assistance systems. As an inde-
pendent platform, HERE remains accessible for the auto motive 
industry as well as other partners. In the year under report, the 
location data and technology platform had nine direct and indirect 
shareholders: Audi, Bosch, the BMW Group, Continental, Intel, 
Mitsubishi, the Mercedes-Benz Group, Nippon Telegraph and 
Telephone, and Pioneer. In November 2022, the BMW Group and 
HERE Technologies jointly announced that HERE HD Live Map – 
HERE’s high-resolution road map – will be used for automated 
driving functions. 

*  ↗ Consumption and Carbon Disclosures.

*

 
 
 
95

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

Products

The BMW Group is a founding partner of the IONITY joint venture, 
which aims to establish a high-power charging network for elec-
tric vehicles right across Europe. This is an important step in 
ensuring that electric mobility is convenient to use, even over 
long distances. The founding partners, i.e. the BMW Group, the 
Mercedes-Benz Group, the Ford Motor Company and Porsche, 
together  with  Volkswagen  and  Audi,  all  participated  in  equal 
measure. In 2019, the Hyundai Motor Group with its Hyundai and 
Kia brands joined IONITY as an additional shareholder. In April 
2022, BlackRock became a further investor, enabling IONITY to 
continue  investing  in  the  densification  and  expansion  of  the 
high-power charging network. ↗  Expanding charging infrastructure 
and enabling faster charging

In  collaboration  with  Amazon  Web  Services  (AWS),  the 
BMW Group is developing innovative cloud technologies for pro-
cessing vehicle data. The two companies are also working to-
gether to develop commercial standard cloud solutions for the 
secure handling of vehicle data. The agreement is a continuation 
of the partnership between BMW and AWS in the field of vehicle 
data that began back in 2015. As in all previous collaborations 
with AWS, the BMW Group retains full and exclusive control over 
the  data  and  complies  with  the  data  protection  regulations 
 applicable in its respective markets.

Since the launch of the first BMW voice assistant (BMW Intelli-
gent Personal Assistant) in 2018, voice interaction has become 
an increasingly important part of the BMW iDrive display and 
operating concept. The next generation of the voice assistant will 
be based on Amazon’s Alexa technology, thus enabling an even 
more natural dialogue between driver and vehicle.

Information on the overall scope of the BMW Group’s research 
and  development  activities  is  available  in  the  section  on  the 
Group's results of operations. ↗ Financial performance

P R O D U C T   Q U A L I T Y   A N D 
S A F E T Y

All BMW Group products and services are required to meet the 
highest  standards  in  terms  of  quality  and  safety,  which  are 
 ensured  by  the  Group’s  comprehensive  quality  management 
system. All measures taken reflect the BMW Group’s constant 
focus on human safety.

Effective safety systems 
The BMW Group regards the safety of its vehicle’s occupants and 
road users in general as its foremost priority when developing its 
products. Optimum chassis tuning, highly effective braking sys-
tems and stable passenger compartments are key factors in this 
context. Moreover, BMW Group vehicles are equipped with state-
of-the-art safety systems that reduce the risk of accidents and 
injuries (active safety systems such as collision warning or lane 
departure warning systems) as well as mitigate the consequences 
in the event of an accident (passive safety systems such as airbags 
or seat belts). 

We work continuously to further improve the safety of our vehi-
cles. For example, since 2021 the BMW iX * has been setting new 
standards in this field with its active safety systems. These lat-
est-generation safety features are currently being transferred to 
other models, including the BMW 7 Series and the BMW X1. The 
sustained high safety level of BMW Group vehicles was again 
confirmed  externally  by  the  European  New  Car  Assessment 
 Programme (Euro NCAP) in the course of 2022. Following the 
BMW iX *, which was awarded 5 stars in the previous year, the 
BMW 2 Series Active Tourer and the BMW X1 also earned this 
maximum  rating  in  the year  under  report. These  results  also 
 underpin  the  BMW  Group’s  premium  aspiration  in  terms  of 
 vehicle safety. ↗ GRI Index: 416-1 

Quality management 
Product safety is an essential part of the BMW Group’s compre-
hensive quality management system, which is in place to ensure 
that its products are safe, of excellent quality and legally compli-
ant. From the development stage to manufacturing, the Group’s 
products are therefore subject to strict testing procedures. How-
ever, in our view, quality management goes much further. Any 
information from customers regarding potential deviations from 
quality standards are systematically followed up. The BMW Group 
informs the relevant authorities without delay if required to do so 
for  market-related  reasons. This  is  especially  true  for  safety- 
related and compliance-relevant aspects.

If  a  safety  risk  or  a  compliance-related  defect  is  found,  the 
BMW Group implements all the measures required to remedy the 
issue  in  close  coordination  with  the  responsible  authorities. 
Safety- and compliance-related technical actions affected around 
3.4 million vehicles during the year under report. These actions 
were all of a voluntary nature and carried out in close coordina-
tion with the authorities. The BMW Group works according to the 
principle of prevention. To avoid technical actions of this type 
going forward, the BMW Group has developed a comprehensive 
programme that is in place as of 2023. 

Pollutants management 
The BMW Group aspires to comply with all legal requirements 
regarding the use and handling of pollutants at every link in the 
value  chain  and  also  insists  on  corresponding  requirements 
throughout its entire supply chain. To the extent possible, the use 
of problematic substances is ruled out right from the vehicle 
design stage. In this respect we use the ↗ Global Automotive Declar-
able Substance List (GADSL) as a guideline. At the same time, we 
are working to reduce pollutant emissions in the interior of our 
vehicles to an absolute minimum. All BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce 
brand vehicles are equipped as standard with interior air filters 

*  ↗ Consumption and Carbon Disclosures.

 
 
 
96

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

Products

that prevent exterior pollutants and particles such as dust or pol-
len from entering the vehicle. Since 2020, the BMW Group has 
been using air filters equipped with nanofibre technology that 
are specially designed to prevent certain microbial particles and 
allergens as well as ultra-fine particulate matter from entering 
the vehicle.

Sensitising and empowering customers 
The BMW Group provides its customers with a broad range of 
information regarding the proper use of its products and servic-
es. Information on safety, the correct operation of vehicles, and 
health protection is available in both printed and digital form 
(online or via app). The information is supplemented by detailed 
notes and background information on the services, accessories 
and components pertaining to each individual vehicle.

With the ↗ BMW M Driving Experience, the BMW Group offers driver 
and rider safety training for BMW, MINI and BMW Motorrad brand 
vehicles in  25 countries. In addition to the product experience 
itself, participants learn how to handle their vehicles in a safe 
manner and are made aware of potentially dangerous situations 
when using public roads. In 2022, more than 100,000 customers 
worldwide took part in these training courses.

Customer data protection
In view of the increasing scale of digitalisation and the higher 
level of IT risks, the BMW Group regards data protection as a key 
responsibility. Strict data protection requirements are therefore 
taken into account at an early stage when developing functions 
and services. Any personal data required in the course of contact 
with our customers are only collected, processed or used to the 
extent legally permitted and with the active consent of the data 
subject. The BMW Group deploys an individually configurable 
data  protection  menu  to  ensure  transparency,  informational 
self-determination and thus data sovereignty for all its customers.

In order to ensure the protection of customer data, despite the 
challenge posed by the growing number of digitalised services, 
we are constantly developing our data management systems and 
respond promptly to any information received regarding data 
protection risks. During the year under report, we additionally im-
proved  customer  data  protection  by  tightening  customer  data 
governance. If customers have any queries regarding the pro-
cessing of their personal data, they are welcome to contact the 
Customer Interaction Centre or the Data Protection Officer in their 
respective market.

At the same time, we work continuously to maintain our high 
level of data protection and regularly check all applications de-
ployed for processing customer data to ensure they comply with 
all currently applicable and appropriate IT security measures. 
Our  specialised  teams  search  specifically  for  weak  points  in 
 applications. We also translate any new findings into binding, 
Group-wide standards if the need arises. 

The  BMW  Group  collaborates  closely  with  the  relevant  data 
 protection supervisory authorities, particularly regarding funda-
mental data protection issues such as the increasing connectiv-
ity of vehicles. ↗ GRI Index: 3-3, 418-1

Secure connectivity
The BMW Group’s responsibility for its products includes the se-
cure transmission of vehicle data to third parties. For example, 
Group vehicles are not directly connected to the Internet, but 
communicate directly and exclusively with the BMW Connected-
Drive back-end facilities via a secure connection within a virtual 
private network. The strategy enables the BMW Group to mini-
mise the risk of unauthorised third parties accessing either the 
vehicle itself or any of its sensitive data. The access point to the 
Internet is controlled via a gateway. We see this extended vehicle 
copytext approach in accordance with ISO 20078 as the best 
solution  to  providing  outstanding  data  security  and  data  pro-
tection and meeting statutory cybersecurity requirements (e.g. 
UN R155).

↗ CarData provides BMW and MINI customers with transparency 
and sovereignty over the transfer of data to authorised third par-
ties. With the introduction of the service in Germany and Europe 
in 2017 and the USA in 2020, the BMW Group is fully implement-
ing the current requirements of the EU General Data Protection 
Regulation (EU GDPR) and the California Consumer Privacy Act 
(CCPA). The BMW Group deploys state-of-the-art technologies 
to prevent vehicle theft. In the BMW iX* for example, ultra-wide-
band technology further enhances the level of vehicle security. 

*  ↗ Consumption and Carbon Disclosures.

 
 
 
97

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

Products

C A R B O N   E M I S S I O N S

CO2 steering

BMW Group
Strategy

Consistency with the objectives of the 
Paris Agreement 
(Scope 1, 2, 3) and SBTi commitment

Monitoring and Reporting – 
Governance
(Group reporting, 
publications)

CO2

steering

Targets for product projects and 
anchoring in the periodic targets 
(t CO2 per vehicle) of the departments 
Sales, Development 
and Production

Target guidance and target 
control through ongoing 
evaluation of contribution 
to the measures (avoidance 
of CO2 emissions) 

Development of measures to 
meet targets and implementation 
in the technology clusters 
for all scopes

The BMW Group is fully committed to the climate protection tar-
gets set out in the Paris Agreement. We are taking ambitious 
steps to contribute to progressive decarbonisation. At its base is 
our holistic carbon reduction strategy. By 2050 at the latest, we 
intend  to  achieve  net  zero  in  terms  of  our  carbon  emissions 
across the entire value chain.

By holistic, we mean reducing the carbon emissions of our vehi-
cles not only during the use phase, but over their entire life cycle. 
With this approach we aim to achieve substantial improvements 
that stretch across all our vehicle generations. This point is par-
ticularly important in view of the increasing electrification of en-
tire fleets: although the strategy reduces the carbon emissions 
generated during the ↗ Use phase, at the same time, however, they 
increase, particularly in the supply chain, mainly due to the car-
bon-intensive production of components such as high-voltage 
batteries. Reducing carbon emissions is therefore one of the key 
criteria we apply when awarding contracts to partners within our 
supplier network. Via this strategy, the BMW Group is simulta-
neously promoting cross-sector decarbonisation, particularly for 
energy-intensive primary materials such as steel, light metals 
and plastics. ↗ Carbon emissions in the supply chain

The BMW Group’s ambitious decarbonisation targets are part of 
its integrated corporate target system. They are in line with the 
climate protection targets set out in the Paris Agreement and 
validated by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). These 
targets are being implemented under the responsibility of the 
Board of Management in the BMW Group’s various departments 
and thus consistently throughout the organisation. ↗ Performance 
indicators and management The BMW Group derives its specific de-
carbonisation targets for each vehicle project from its overarching 
goals. The responsibility for achieving these goals lies with de-
fined specialist units in the management areas of Development, 
Purchasing and Supplier Network as well as Production. Internal 
control and reporting systems take into account the various stag-

98

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

Products

es along the value chain, comprising the supply chain, develop-
ment, production and the use phase of the vehicles. Among oth-
er factors, emissions targets at component level form the basis 
for the Group’s carbon reduction measures. Target management 
and the monitoring of target achievement are performed at ve-
hicle level and subsequently aggregated for various purposes, 
including reporting at Group level.

We explain how the BMW Group manages the topic of sustain-
ability across the organisation in the chapter ↗ Strategy. We also 
report on the management of climate-related opportunities and 
risks, such as the stricter regulation of carbon emissions, in the 
chapters ↗ Outlook and ↗ Risks and Opportunities.

Carbon reduction targets across the value chain in detail
For now, efforts to reduce the BMW Group’s carbon emissions 
are based on measurable, science-based targets set to 2030. In 
this context, we joined the SBTi in 2020. 

With these targets in mind, we are moving forward along a path-
way in line with the Paris Agreement set to limit global warming. 
On this basis, we also became the first German automobile man-
ufacturer to join the ↗ Business Ambition for 1.5°C initiative of the SBTi 
in 2021. The BMW Group is therefore also part of the internation-
al ↗ Race to Zero Campaign initiated by the United Nations. With this 
strategy, we are also seeking to motivate other companies to 
take ambitious steps to protect the climate. 

We have set ourselves the following SBTi-validated carbon 
reduction targets¹ by 2030 (base year 2019 for each scope):

 — Carbon reduction by an average of 80 % per vehicle produced 
at our own plants and sites (Scope 1 and 2)2. These targets 
can be achieved by for example reducing our energy require-
ments and simultaneously increasing the use of renewable 
energy.3 ↗ Carbon emissions at BMW Group sites

 — Carbon reduction in the use phase 4 of the vehicle (Scope 3 
downstream 5) by an average of more than 50 % per kilo-
metre driven. To accomplish this target, we are driving for-
ward the electrification of the entire product portfolio and 
deploying new, efficiency-enhancing technologies. 
↗ Efficient Dynamics technologies

 — Carbon reduction by more than 20 % on average 6 per vehicle 
in the supply chain (Scope 3 upstream 7). Thus we also have 
a scientifically tested and confirmed target for reducing car-
bon emissions in the supply chain. In particular, the use of 
renewable energy sources 3 as a criterion for awarding con-
tracts to suppliers and a continuously rising secondary raw 
materials ratio will contribute to achieving the target. 
↗ Carbon emissions in the supply chain.

Over the entire life cycle 8 of a vehicle, the individual targets men-
tioned above will result in an average carbon reduction of more 
than 40 % by 2030. In order to achieve this, we rely on measures 
to reduce carbon emissions, such as the use of renewable ener-
gies 3, in both our own operations and those of our suppliers. 
Accordingly, compensation measures are not included. In par-
ticular, the significant increase in the ↗ sale of electrified vehicles, 
efficiency improvements in all drivetrain technologies and effec-
tive measures to ↗ reduce carbon emissions in the supply chain are 
expected to help achieve the targets. The BMW Group will con-
tinuously review and further develop its carbon reduction targets 
with  the  aim  of  continuing  to  meet  its  high  standards  for 
 decarbonising its business model going forward.

Absolute  carbon  emissions  decreased  by  4.2  %  to  around 
117.4 million tonnes during the year under report (2021: 122.5 mil-
lion tonnes), the main driver being the increasing electrification 
of the product portfolio. We provide comprehensive information 
on the BMW Group’s carbon footprint in the chapter ↗ Further GRI 
Information. 

1   Scope 3 emissions (upstream) in the supply chain and transport logistics, as well as well-to-tank 

emissions from the supply of fuel in the use phase, take into account not only carbon but also other 
climate-impacting greenhouse gases such as methane and are stated in carbon equivalents (CO2e). 
The measurement of Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, as well as the additional Scope 3 emissions, 
does not include climate-impacting gases other than carbon dioxide. ↗ Glossary

2   In addition to production emissions, CO2 Scope 1 and 2 emissions also include those generated at 

sites not allocated to production.

3   In-house generation, direct purchase or Energy Attributes Certificates (e.g. certificates of origin).
4   Takes into account an additional 10 % in line with SBTi to cover possible differences between WLTP 
figures and actual emissions. The upstream supply chain emissions generated by various energy 
sources (fossil fuels and electricity) according to the well-to-wheel approach are also included. The 
assumed average mileage is 200,000 km (in accordance with VDA 900-100). For definition and 
further information, see ↗ Glossary (carbon emissions of the new vehicle fleet worldwide including 
upstream supply chain emissions).

5   Categories included under Scope 3 downstream according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol; Category 

11: Use phase. ↗ Further information (carbon footprint).

6   For the sake of simplicity, this figure has been rounded. The target validated under SBTi is 22 %.
7   Categories included under Scope 3 upstream according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Category 1: 
Purchased goods and services; Category 4: Transportation and distribution. ↗ Further information 
(carbon footprint).

8   Not including carbon emissions generated through waste disposal.

 
 
 
 
 
 
99

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

Products

Statutory carbon limits again achieved in the use phase
Carbon emissions generated in the use phase are not only an 
important metric in our life cycle assessment, but also subject to 
numerous regulatory requirements. The BMW Group aims not 
only to meet the statutory carbon emissions limits, but to under-
cut them. Within the EU¹, average carbon fleet emissions, taking 
into account regulatory requirements² and in accordance with 
WLTP³, were 105.0 g CO2/km 4. We have thus reduced the carbon 
emissions of the new vehicle fleet EU 5 by a further 10.9 g com-
pared to the previous year (2021: 115.9 g CO2/km 4). We remained 
significantly below the limit of 127.5 g CO2/km 4 applicable to the 
BMW Group in the year under report by 22.5 g CO2/km, continu-
ing the trend seen in recent decades, driven by the electrification 
of the vehicle fleet and the fleet-wide deployment of innovative 
↗ Efficient Dynamics technologies. On this basis, we shall continue 
to work on reducing greenhouse gas emissions going forward.

Regulatory GHG fleet consumption targets were met in the US 
market during the year under report.6 In the USA, GHG fleet emis-
sions 7 averaged 137.3 g CO2/km for model year (MY) 2022 for the 
Passenger Cars category (MY 2021: 134.0 g CO2/km) and 154.9 g 
CO2/km (MY 2021: 150.1 g CO2/km) for the Light Truck category. 
Volume-weighted fleet carbon emissions averaged 145.9 g CO2/
km in the USA (MY 2021: 140.9 g CO2/km).8 Despite higher sales 
of all-electric vehicles in the US market, GHG fleet emissions 
increased slightly year-on-year, as significantly more vehicles 
from higher segments with correspondingly higher emissions 
were also sold during the year under report. In China, average 
fleet carbon emissions were 150.6 g CO2/km9 in accordance with 
the WLTC test cycle (2021: 163.0 g CO2/km WLTC). Thus we also 
met the regulatory CAFC fleet consumption requirements appli-
cable in that country during the year under report.10

The BMW Group’s worldwide carbon fleet emissions 11 averaged 
193.7 g CO2/km 12 (2021: 197.9 g CO2/km) in the year under report. 
These figures correspond to a decrease of 11.4 % compared to 
the base year 2019 (2019: 218.5 g CO2/km). When calculating the 
emissions figure, the BMW Group takes into account the average 

carbon fleet emissions (including upstream emissions for fuel 
and electric charging) in the EU, the USA and China and stand-
ardises them in accordance with WLTP. With a share of more than 
80 % of BMW Group deliveries, these three core markets and 
regions form a reliable basis for calculating global carbon fleet 
emissions. 

The BMW Group is paying close attention to carbon emissions 
legislation in its various markets. Current developments during 
the year under report included the EU’s agreement on new fleet 
emissions targets for the years 2030 and 2035 and the tighten-
ing of national fleet consumption targets in the USA. At state 
level, the California Environmental Protection Agency (CARB) 
also adopted a new Zero Emission Vehicle (ZEV) mandate in 
2022  that  calls  for  a  ZEV  quota  of  100 %  by  2035,  which  is 
 expected  to  be  adopted  by  several  states.  In  principle,  the 
BMW Group supports the development of harmonized regula-
tions – both nationally and internationally. Comparable specifi-
cations in major markets create reliable, predictable framework 
conditions  and  make  an  important  contribution  to  combating 
climate  change  as  well  as  improving  air  quality.  We  provide 
 information on the BMW Group’s most important climate policy 
positions and activities in our ↗ Climate Commitment Report.

Making conventional drivetrains more efficient and 
generating fewer emissions 
From the BMW Group’s point of view, modern, efficient combus-
tion engines also continue to play an important role. This per-
spective will continue to apply as long as unrestricted access to 
charging infrastructure cannot yet be guaranteed across all re-
gions and for every customer. For this reason, the BMW Group 
will continue to work on improving the efficiency of its conven-
tional drivetrain systems as part of its Efficient Dynamics strat-
egy.  Efficient  Dynamics  is  a  technology  package  comprising 
various coordinated measures to reduce fuel consumption in the 
fields of engine technology, aerodynamics and lightweight con-
struction that has been in use across the fleet since 2007.

1  EU-27 countries including Norway and Iceland.
2   Including an allowance for eco-innovations (amounts of minor significance).
3   Average carbon fleet emissions within the EU (including Norway and Iceland) are required to be 

reported in accordance with the new Worldwide Harmonized Light Vehicles Test Procedure (WLTP) 
type test cycle as of 2021. Since 2021, this metric has been used by the EU Commission as the basis 
for calculating carbon fleet emissions. 

4   This is a preliminary internal calculation with a potential variation of +/– 0.5 g CO2/km, as official 

registration figures from the authorities are not available for all EU states. Figures officially 
published by the EU Commission are not expected to be available until November of the following 
year. Prior-year figures have not been retrospectively adjusted.

5   ↗ Glossary
6   In the US market, manufacturers receive positive credits for undercutting regulatory GHG 

(Greenhouse Gas) fleet limits. Failure to remain below the regulatory limits results in negative 
credits. At the end of a model year, a positive GHG credit balance must be achieved in order to meet 
regulatory requirements. As GHG credits are valid for five years on the US market, a short-term 
failure to meet fleet limit targets in one year can be offset by undercutting them in a previous year. 
Moreover, it is possible to purchase credits from other manufacturers. In the year under report, the 
BMW Group used this type of flexibility to meet regulatory GHG requirements on the US market. As of 
2023, the BMW Group will no longer purchase credits from other manufacturers, but meet the 
requirements without exception using credits it generates itself. 

7   Converted from g/mi to g/km for comparison purposes. 
8   Average volume-weighted fleet emissions, including regulatory allowable crediting factors (EV 

multipliers, credits for advanced technologies) in accordance with USC (United States Combined). 
Preliminary internal calculation.

9   Average volume-weighted fleet emissions, including regulatory allowable crediting factors (off-cycle 
technologies, NEV multipliers, phase-in) in accordance with WLTC (Worldwide Harmonized Test Cycle 
under China-specific test boundary conditions). Preliminary internal calculation.

10  On the Chinese market, manufacturers receive positive credits for undercutting regulatory CAFC 
(Corporate Average Fuel Consumption) fleet limits. Failure to remain below the regulatory limits 
results in negative credits. In addition, manufacturers receive positive credits for meeting or 
undercutting the ZEV quota specifications (Zero Emission Vehicle quota). At the end of a calendar 
year, a positive CAFC/ZEV credit balance must be achieved in order to meet regulatory requirements. 
As CAFC/ZEV credits are valid for five years on the Chinese market, a short-term failure to meet fleet 
limit targets in one year can be offset by undercutting them in a previous year. Moreover, it is 
possible to purchase credits from other manufacturers. In the year under report, the BMW Group used 
this type of flexibility to meet regulatory CAFC and ZEV requirements on the Chinese market. As of 
2023, the BMW Group will no longer purchase credits from other manufacturers, but meet the 
requirements without exception using credits it generates itself. A balance between CAFC and ZEV 
remains in place.

11  For definition, see ↗ Glossary (carbon emissions generated by the new vehicle fleet worldwide, 

including upstream supply chain emissions).

12  Takes into account an additional 10 % in line with SBTi to cover possible differences between WLTP 
figures and actual emissions. The upstream supply chain emissions generated by various energy 
sources (fossil fuels and electricity) according to the well-to-wheel approach are also included. The 
assumed average mileage is 200,000 km (in accordance with VDA 900-100). For definition and 
further information, see ↗ Glossary (carbon emissions of the new vehicle fleet worldwide including 
upstream supply chain emissions).

 
 
 
100

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

Products

A key component in this respect is currently the extended use of 
48-volt technology. 48-volt recuperation systems use the energy 
recovered from the braking process to supply the vehicle’s elec-
trical system and generate additional propulsion. The technolo-
gy helps reduce fuel consumption and thus also carbon emis-
sions. In Europe, in addition to its all-electric models and plug-in 
hybrids, we offer numerous new model series that feature a 48-
volt recuperation system. Since 2022, our modular engines have 
been fitted with the second, even more efficient, generation of 
48-volt technology. The further development of energy manage-
ment in BMW Group vehicles, alongside other measures such as 
switching to highly efficient tyres, is designed to ensure  additional 
efficiency and optimised consumption figures.

Further reduction in pollutant emissions
Since the early 1990s, the BMW Group has significantly reduced 
the regulated pollutant emissions of its vehicles, such as nitrogen 
oxides (NOx), carbon monoxide (CO) and particulate matter (PM)1 
by deploying new technologies and further developing existing 
ones. In Europe alone, we have reduced the relevant exhaust 
emissions of our new vehicle fleets for diesel-powered passenger 
cars in line with the limits of the Euro 1 to Euro 6d emissions 
standards by well over 90 % from 1992 to 2021 compared with 
levels measured prior to the introduction of the Euro emissions 
standards. All BMW Group vehicles offered during the year under 
report meet the current Euro 6d emissions standard applicable 
within the European Union as well as comparable regulations in 
Switzerland, Norway, the UK and Iceland. 

The level of nitrogen oxides is a crucial factor for air quality in 
cities. For this reason, since mid-2018 the BMW Group has been 
using a highly effective combination of NOx storage catalytic 
converters (NSC) and selective catalytic reduction (SCR) systems 
that include urea injection (AdBlue) in all BMW vehicles as well 
as in the larger diesel-powered MINI models. The efficiency of 
exhaust gas aftertreatment has been further raised by the use 
of an improved oxidation catalytic converter in combination with 
a two-stage SCR system. This new technology has been availa-
ble since 2020 with the revised generation of 6-cylinder diesel 

engines and will be rolled out across the entire product portfolio 
in the coming years. There have already been signs of a reduction 
in NOx pollution in German cities over the last few years. Apart 
from various measures taken to reduce pollutants, the ongoing 
renewal of the vehicle fleets of all automobile manufacturers has 
also contributed to the improvement. ↗ GRI-Index: 305-7

E L E C T R O M O B I L I T Y

Electric mobility is among the major topics driving the ongoing 
transformation in the automotive industry. The BMW Group is 
systematically continuing to electrify its model range as a key 
component of its product strategy. Our electrified vehicles are 
playing a major role in reducing fleet emissions and thus achiev-
ing our ambitious strategic ↗ carbon reduction targets. 

Growing demand for electrified vehicles
With our constantly expanding range of all-electric, battery-pow-
ered vehicles (BEV 2) and plug-in hybrid models (PHEV 3), we are 
serving a rapidly growing demand. In 2022, the BMW Group de-
livered a total of 433,792 4 units to customers, i.e. significantly 
more electrified vehicles than in the previous year (2021: 328,314 4 
units; + 32.1 %). On this basis, the share of electrified vehicles 
had also increased significantly to 18.1 % by the end of the year 
under report (2021: 13.0 %). To date, the BMW Group has there-
fore handed over a total of more than 1.4 million vehicles with 
either all-electric or plug-in hybrid drive systems to customers. 
↗ Automotive segment 

The share of electrified vehicles in total deliveries might exceed 
30 % by as early as 2025. In our view, the ↗ NEUE KLASSE has the 
potential to additionally accelerate the market penetration of elec-
tric mobility, and thus a 50 % share of all-electric vehicles in the 
BMW Group’s global unit sales could be achieved even earlier 
than 2030. Under these conditions, the BMW Group aims to sur-
pass the mark of ten million all-electric vehicles delivered to cus-
tomers in total by 2030. This positive expectation for future sales 

5

will also play a key role in the review of our carbon emissions 
reduction targets scheduled to take place in 2023. 
↗ Carbon emissions reduction targets across the value chain in detail

Both the MINI and the Rolls-Royce brands are also firmly on track 
towards an electrified future. Based on their respective typical 
user profiles, the model ranges of the two brands are set to be 
exclusively all-electric by the early 2030s.

1  Particulate matter.
2  Battery Electric Vehicle.
3  Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicle.
4  Including BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd.
5  ↗ Consumption and Carbon Disclosures.

 
101

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

Products

Model range consistently focused on customer needs
The BMW Group’s product range not only serves the growing 
demand for electrified models, but also reflects varying frame-
work conditions and customer needs in its individual markets. 
Our  customers  can  therefore  continue  to  choose  between 
all-electric vehicles, plug-in hybrids and efficient internal com-
bustion engines. We make this customer-oriented offering pos-
sible by means of our ↗ flexible production systems and the scalable 
modular  system  of  our vehicles. The  diversity  of  the  range  is 
 embodied in particular by the BMW X1, BMW X3, BMW 3 and 4 
Series and BMW 7 Series models, each of which is available with 
all three types of drivetrain. This will also apply to the BMW 5 
Series as of 2023. 

At the end of the reporting period, the BMW Group had a total of 
12 BEV motor variants in eight different models available to order. 
New additions include the BMW i7 1, the BMW iX1 1 and the ex-
tended-wheelbase version of the BMW 3 Series for the Chinese 
market, deliveries of which began in 2022. The existing, all-elec-
tric product portfolio will be expanded to include the BMW iX3 1, 
BMW i4 1, BMW iX 1 and the MINI Cooper SE 1. The inclusion of 
these variants in the range means that at least one all-electric 
model will be available in each of the high-yield model series. 
Over the next two years, vehicles such as the BMW i5 and the 
all-electric variant of the MINI Countryman are set to follow. As 
of  2025,  the  Group  will  take  its  core  BMW  brand  into  a  new, 
 consistently all-electric dimension with the ↗ NEUE KLASSE.

Moreover, in the course of 2022, the BMW Group either launched 
or revised seven different PHEV engine variants. At the end of 
2022, a total of 19 PHEV engine variants 1 in a total of 13 models 
were available to order worldwide. With offers such as the BMW 
eDrive  Zone,  attractive  electricity  tariffs  for  driving,  charging 
equipment  and  increased  ranges,  we  are  helping  drivers  of 
 plug-in hybrids to drive electrically as frequently and over as long 
a distance as possible. For instance, the BMW 2 Series Active 
 Tourer Plug-in Hybrid 1 from the compact segment can cover up 
to 93 kilometres (WLTP 2) solely on battery power.

Increasing range in line with customer needs
The BMW Group assesses the increase in the electric ranges of 
its vehicles from various points of view. Basically, we are not 
aiming to achieve the greatest technically possible range across 
all vehicle segments, but see it as important to optimally adapt 
ranges to the intended use of the respective vehicle. At the same 
time, we also take into account the environmental impact, as 
greater range also means deploying larger and therefore heavi-
er high-voltage batteries. This relationship has a direct effect on 
resource consumption, the environmental footprint of the supply 
chain and, of course, vehicle weight, which in turn has a signifi-
cant impact on electricity consumption. 

With these points in mind, the MINI Cooper SE 1 has a range of 
more than 200 kilometres (WLTP 2), which is fully in line with 
customer requirements for urban areas. On the other hand, the 
BMW iX 1, the BMW i4 1 and the BMW i7 1 are designed to cover 
long distances of around 600 kilometres (WLTP 2) on one charge.

Thinking holistically about electric mobility
The BMW Group’s electrified vehicles are characterised by high 
efficiency and thus low consumption when driving. However, the 
BMW  Group has greater aspirations: its vehicles need to be as 
eco-friendly as possible, not only during their locally carbon-free 
use phase, but also in terms of their overall footprint, including 
the supply chain and production. ↗ CO2 steering With battery-pow-
ered automobiles in particular, the environmental impacts are 
predominantly in the upstream value chain, where the purchase 
of raw materials to make battery cells and the carbon-intensive 
production of batteries have a significant impact. 

The BMW Group therefore attributes great importance to includ-
ing environmental and social aspects when producing compo-
nents such as electric motors, high-voltage storage units and 
battery cells. ↗ Carbon emissions in the supply chain ↗ Social and eco-
logical  responsibility Other approaches to mitigating the environ-
mental impacts include recycling and reusing high-voltage stor-
age  units  from  our  BEV  and  PHEV  models. The  BMW  Group 

already offers all customers who purchase its battery-powered 
vehicles the opportunity to take back their high-voltage batteries 
free of charge.

Expanding charging infrastructure and enabling faster 
charging
An expanded, customer-friendly charging infrastructure will pave 
the way for the rapid and widespread use of electric mobility. This 
relationship is supported, for example, by market data collected 
within the EU – both at the level of member states and in a com-
parison of different regions. A prerequisite for the swift develop-
ment of an efficient charging infrastructure is a high level of will-
ingness on the part of all stakeholders. This applies in particular 
to the expansion of charging and hydrogen refuelling infrastruc-
ture within the EU – a key factor in achieving the ambitious fleet 
carbon reduction targets adopted in 2022. The BMW Group con-
tinues to advocate for standardised framework conditions and 
creates offers that enable customer-friendly charging on a broad 
basis. 

1  ↗ Consumption and Carbon Disclosures.
2   Range calculated based on the new WLTP test cycle (Worldwide Harmonized Light Vehicles Test 

Procedure). However, the actual range possible depends on a variety of factors, particularly variables 
such as personal driving style, route conditions, outside temperatures, heating, air conditioning and 
pre-heating. Preliminary figure. 

 
 
102

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

Products

Reliable charging opportunities
With BMW and MINI Charging, the BMW Group is offering its 
customers attractive electricity tariffs for driving as well as con-
venient charging solutions whether on the road, at home or at 
work. Customers can access a large number of public charging 
points via their BMW or MINI Charging Card and the My BMW 
or MINI App. Digital Charging Services GmbH (DCS) provides 
broad access to various charging networks throughout Europe. 
As a joint venture of the BMW Group, the Mercedes-Benz Group 
and  bp,  DCS  is  among  Europe’s  leading  providers  of  digital 
charging solutions. 

A total of almost 900,000 charging points is available to BMW 
and MINI customers worldwide. In Europe alone, BMW custom-
ers have easy access to a network with over 360,000 charging 
points, including fast-charging stations with a capacity of up to 
350  kilowatts  (kW). These  are  all  part  of  IONITY’s  European 
high-power charging services initiated by the BMW Group, which 
can be used via BMW and MINI Charging. IONITY currently op-
erates 430 stations with 1,900 charging points in a total of 24 
countries, which are publicly accessible, brand-independent and 
designed in accordance with the European Combined Charging 
System (CCS) charging standard. Furthermore, they are all pow-
ered by 100 % green electricity.

Beyond the public charging service, BMW and MINI Charging 
provide a standard charging solution both for homes and on the 
road in the form of the Flexible Fast Charger and other charging 
products. We also offer charging solutions for corporate custom-
ers in cooperation with our partners. The BMW Group itself op-
erates one of the largest company charging networks in Germany.

Digital, innovative and more eco-friendly charging 
solutions
Charging should be as easy as conventional refuelling and we 
are working on digital solutions in particular to meet this demand. 
These include Connected Charging – an application that can be 
accessed from the vehicle as well as via an app. Via the service, 
drivers not only receive up-to-date charging information, since 
2022 they have also been able to control the charging process 
at the touch of a button. The eRoute function also enables cus-
tomers to plan their charging stops on long-distance trips. In the 
course of 2023, the first BMW models will also be equipped with 
a Plug&Charge function, in which both authentication and billing 
will be done automatically by connecting the vehicle to the charg-
ing system. Using the so-called multi-contract functionality, in-
dividual driving electricity tariff contracts from various providers 
can also be stored digitally within the vehicle to facilitate the use 
of charging stations from different operators.

We also promote the use of renewable energy. Since 2022, for 
each charging process conducted via BMW and MINI Charging, 
the equivalent amount of energy consumed is fed into the pow-
er grid as green electricity, which is certified via Energy Attribute 
Certificates (EACs) as recognised proofs of origin. Moreover, we 
are continuously working on integrating electric vehicles with their 
high-voltage storage systems in the energy grid. ↗ Vehicles as part 
of the power grid

Advancing hydrogen technology
Customer-oriented technological diversity also includes the fur-
ther development of fuel cell technology. Depending on the seg-
ment, we see hydrogen-powered electric vehicles as an impor-
tant complement to electric mobility with batteries and thus as 
an opportunity to reduce carbon emissions even more quickly. 
Following the presentation of the first ↗ BMW iX5 Hydrogen at the 
IAA Mobility in 2021, at the end of August 2022 we began pro-
ducing fuel cells for a pilot fleet of these vehicles. In December, 
this was followed by the start of production of these vehicles at 
the pilot plant of the Research and Innovation Centre in Munich.

We are also driving hydrogen technology forward at a higher lev-
el and thus are involved in global organisations and associations 
such  as  the  ↗  Hydrogen  Council.  As  an  associated  partner  of 
↗ H2 Mobility Deutschland GmbH, the BMW Group is supporting the 
development of hydrogen infrastructure in Germany. In this con-
text, the BMW Group welcomes the requirement under the EU’s 
Fit for 55 legislative package to establish a basic infrastructure 
of 700-bar hydrogen filling stations. 

103

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

Production and Supplier Network

PRODUCTION AND SUPPLIER   
NETWORK

103  Production Network

106  Circular Economy, Resource Efficiency and 

Renewable Energy

110  Purchasing and Supplier Network

P R O D U C T I O N   A N D   S U P P L I E R   N E T W O R K

P R O D U C T I O N   N E T W O R K

The BMW Group’s production network features a high level of 
expertise in terms of integration. Its plants are capable of man-
ufacturing vehicles with both all-electric and plug-in hybrid drive 
systems as well as conventional combustion engines – all on one 
single line. The Group’s entire production facilities are geared 
towards electrification, profitability, sustainability and digitalisa-
tion. The strategic aims of the BMW iFACTORY form the frame-
work – lean, green and digital. “Lean” stands for efficiency, pre-
cision, maximum flexibility and an outstanding ability to integrate. 
“Green” involves the use of state-of-the-art technologies to sys-
temise production with the lowest possible use of resources. 
“Digital”  focuses  on  data  science,  AI,  virtual  planning  and 
 development. 

Electric mobility globally integrated 
The share of electric mobility in total sales is steadily growing 
and further milestones were reached in the course of 2022. With 
the  start  of  production  of  the  BMW  iX1*  in  Regensburg,  the 
BMW Group achieved its aim of producing at least one all-electric 
model at each of its German vehicle plants by 2022. Moreover, 
the  first  BMW  i7*  was  manufactured  at  the  BMW  Group’s 
 Dingolfing plant. Production also began in Lydia, an extension 
of the BMW Brilliance plant in Tiexi, China, where the all-electric 
long-wheelbase version of the BMW 3 Series is being manufac-
tured for the Chinese market.

We produce units with electrified drivetrains in our production 
network at 13 ↗ locations worldwide. Fully electric units roll off 
the production line in Dingolfing, Leipzig, Munich, Regensburg, 
 Oxford and Shenyang. As of 2025, the ↗ NEUE KLASSE will also 
feature a vehicle architecture systematically geared to suit elec-
tric drive systems. The vehicle is due to be manufactured initial-
ly at the new Debrecen plant in Hungary as well as in Munich as 
of 2026. We aim to gradually transfer the new vehicle architecture 
to the global production network in the years that follow. It also 
plans to produce all-electric vehicles at the plant in Spartanburg 
(USA) and at least six all-electric X models are scheduled to be 
manufactured there by 2030. 

Integrated component production for electrified vehicles
The BMW Group’s production network also manufactures the 
systems  required  for  the  electric  drivetrain. The  competence 
 centre for e-drive production in Dingolfing plays a leading role in 
this  respect,  as  battery  modules,  high-voltage  batteries  and 
fifth-generation  electric  motors  are  all  produced  at  the  site. 
High-voltage batteries and their components are also made at 
BMW Group production plants in Leipzig and Regensburg, as 
well as in Spartanburg (USA) and Shenyang (China). 

At the same time, the Group is preparing its network to produce 
the next generation of electric drivetrains. The Steyr engine man-
ufacturing plant in Austria is also being expanded to develop and 
produce the BMW Group’s sixth generation of e-drive systems 

*  ↗ Consumption and Carbon Disclosures.

104

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

Production and Supplier Network

in addition to the diesel and petrol engines already being man-
ufactured at the site. The next generation of high-voltage batter-
ies will be assembled nearby the plant. A new assembly centre 
for high-voltage batteries is also due to be established close 
to  the  Spartanburg  plant  for  this  purpose.  A  corresponding 
 announcement concerning the Debrecen plant in Hungary was 
made in 2022.

The Cell Manufacturing Competence Centre (CMCC) in Parsdorf 
near Munich, which went into operation in 2022, is making a vital 
contribution to the next generation of e-drive systems. Starting 
with the pilot production line in Parsdorf, the BMW Group intends 
to continue optimising the manufacturing processes of battery 
cells in terms of quality, performance and costs. The CMCC com-
plements the Battery Cell Competence Centre in Munich, which 
focuses primarily on the battery cell as a product.

Production sites in key markets 
The BMW Group always aims to strike a good balance between 
production  and  deliveries  in  the various  regions  of  the  world 
where it operates. Group plants in Europe, South Africa, the USA 
and Mexico serve the global market. The BMW Brilliance plants 
in China mainly manufacture for the local market. During the year 
under report, expansion and extension measures were complet-
ed at the Chinese plants and further models integrated in our 
production  processes. The  BMW  Group’s  automotive  partner 
plants in Jakarta (Indonesia), Cairo (Egypt), Kulim (Malaysia) and, 
since 2022, Chu Lai (Vietnam) primarily serve their respective 
regional markets, producing both BMW and MINI brand models. 
The same applies to the BMW Group plants in Araquari (Brazil), 
Rayong (Thailand) and Chennai (India). The Group also awards 
contracts for the series production of automobiles and motorcy-
cles to external partners (contract manufacturers). During the 
year under report, Magna Steyr Fahrzeugtechnik produced the 
BMW 5 Series Sedan and the BMW Z4* in Graz (Austria). VDL 
Nedcar in Born (the Netherlands) manufactured the MINI Con-
vertible and the MINI Countryman as well as the BMW X1 until 
summer 2022. 

The BMW Group manufactures BMW motorcycles and scooters 
at its Berlin plant as well as at two international locations in 
Manaus (Brazil) and Rayong (Thailand). BMW motorcycles and 
scooters are also produced by the partner companies TVS Motor 
Company in Hosur (India) and Loncin Motor Co., Ltd in Chongqing 
(China). 

The  BMW  Group’s  production  network  also  includes  engine 
plants in Hams Hall (UK), Munich (Germany), Steyr (Austria) and 
Shenyang  (China),  as  well  as  component  plants  at  sites  in 
 Eisenach, Landshut and Wackersdorf (Germany) and Swindon 
(UK). The production network thus comprises a total of 31 plants 
in 15 countries.

BMW Group vehicle plants

Location

Araquari

Berlin

Chennai 

Dingolfing 

Leipzig

Manaus

Munich

Oxford

Rayong 

Regensburg

Rosslyn

San Luis Potosí

Spartanburg 

Country

Brazil

Germany

India 

Production programme 2022

Electrification portfolio

BMW 3 Series, BMW X1, BMW X3, BMW X4

BMW motorcycles

BEV

BMW 2 Series, BMW 3 Series, BMW 5 Series, BMW 6 
Series, BMW 7 Series, BMW X1, BMW X3, BMW X4, 
BMW X5, BMW X7, MINI Countryman 

Germany 

BMW 4 Series, BMW 5 Series, BMW 6 Series, BMW 7 
Series, BMW 8 Series, BMW M, BMW i7*, BMW iX*

BEV, PHEV 

Germany

BMW 1 Series, BMW 2 Series, BMW i3

BEV, PHEV

Brazil

Germany

UK

Thailand 

BMW motorcycles

BMW 3 Series, BMW 4 Series, BMW i4*, BMW M

BEV, PHEV

MINI, MINI Clubman, MINI Cooper SE*

BMW 2 Series, BMW 3 Series, BMW 5 Series, BMW 7 
Series, BMW 
X1, BMW X3, BMW X5, BMW X6, BMW X7

BEV

PHEV 

Germany

BMW 1 Series, BMW 2 Series, BMW X1, BMW iX1*, 
BMW X2

BEV, PHEV

South Africa

BMW X3

Mexico

USA 

BMW 2 Series, BMW 3 Series, BMW M

BMW X3, BMW X4, BMW X5, BMW X6, BMW X7, BMW 
XM*, BMW M

PHEV

PHEV 

Rolls-Royce Manufacturing Plant, Goodwood, 
UK

UK 

Rolls-Royce Cullinan*, Dawn*, Ghost*, Phantom*, 
Wraith* 

BEV from 2023 

*  ↗ Consumption and Carbon Disclosures. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
105

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

Production and Supplier Network

BMW Brilliance Automotive (vehicle plants)1

Location

Dadong (Shenyang)

Tiexi (Shenyang)

Country

China

China

Production programme 2022

Electrification portfolio

BMW 5 Series, BMW X3, BMW X5, BMW iX3 2

 BEV, PHEV

BMW 1 Series, BMW 3 Series, BMW X1, BMW X2, 
BMW i3 (extended-wheelbase version of BMW 3 
Series)

 PHEV

Stable production volume despite challenging 
environment
The coronavirus pandemic and the ongoing limited availability 
of semiconductor components again led to adjustments in the 
production programme during the year under report.  
↗ Supply security

Despite these challenges, the BMW Group achieved a production 
volume of 2,382,305 3 BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce brand vehi-
cles during the period under report (2021: 2,461,269 3 automo-
biles; – 3.2 %). BMW brand models accounted for 2,089,801 3 
vehicles (2021: 2,166,644 3 vehicles; – 3.5 %), MINI for 286,265 
units  (2021:  288,713  units;  – 0.8 %),  and  Rolls-Royce  Motor 
Cars for a record 6,239 units (2021: 5,912 units; + 5.5 %). Pro-
duction of electrified vehicles increased to a new high level of 
462,396 units (2021: 341,097 units; + 35.6 %), of which 252,077 

1   Due to the increase in the BMW Group’s shareholding in the joint venture BMW Brilliance Automotive 
Ltd. (BMW Brilliance) at the beginning of the financial year 2022, BMW Brilliance was included in the 
Group reporting entity. Further information on the first-time consolidation is available in ↗ note 3 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
2  ↗ Consumption and Carbon Disclosures.
3   Includes vehicles produced by BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. for the period prior to full 

consolidation in the consolidated financial statements of the BMW Group (1 January to 10 February 
2022): 58,507 automobiles (2021: 700,777 automobiles).

4  BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd., Shenyang.
5  Contract manufacturing.

were all-electric (2021: 119,010 units; + 111.8 %). The production 
of  motorcycles by BMW Motorrad rose by 15.2 % to 215,932 units 
(2021: 187,500 units).

BMW Group automobile production by plant

in units

Spartanburg

Dingolfing

Regensburg

Leipzig

Oxford

Munich

Rosslyn

Rayong

Chennai

Araquari

Goodwood

San Luis Potosí

Tiexi (BMW Brilliance) 4

Dadong (BMW Brilliance) 4

Born (VDL Nedcar) 5

Graz (Magna Steyr) 5

Partner plants

Total

2022

416,301

282,661

143,654

151,949

186,301

201,323

61,609

12,912

9,960

8,208

6,239

63,600

279,645

395,021

99,126

45,184

18,612

2021

433,810

244,734

183,485

191,604

186,883

151,154

61,580

24,624

8,472

10,104

5,912

69,149

335,311

365,466

105,214

54,547

29,220

2,382,305

2,461,269

Change  
in %

– 4.0

15.5

– 21.7

– 20.7

– 0.3

33.2

0.0

– 47.6

17.6

– 18.8

5.5

– 8.0

– 16.6

8.1

– 5.8

– 17.2

– 36.3

– 3.2

 
106

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

Production and Supplier Network

Closed material cycle for nickel, lithium and 
cobalt in China

For the first time, the BMW Group is currently setting up a 

closed cycle in China with the aim of reusing the raw mate-

rials nickel, lithium and cobalt from end-of-life high-volt-

age batteries. The batteries originate primarily from fully 

and  partially  electrified  development  vehicles,  test  facil-

ities,  production  scrap  and  are  reused  in  forklifts.  In  the 

long  term,  the  BMW  Group  also  plans  to  reuse  batteries 

from end-of-life vehicles. In this context, the BMW Group 

is  working  together  with  a  local  recycling  company  that 

dismantles the batteries and recovers a high percentage 

of  the  raw  materials  from  the  battery  cells  using  an  in-

novative technology. These secondary raw materials are 

intended to be used to produce new battery cells for the 

BMW Group.

C I R C U L A R   E C O N O M Y,   
R E S O U R C E   E F F I C I E N C Y   
A N D   R E N E W A B L E   E N E R G Y

Against a backdrop of rising raw materials prices and the grow-
ing scarcity of resources, the BMW Group is taking further steps 
to increase the proportion of reused materials in its vehicles and 
thus promote the circular economy. The circularity approach re-
quires a holistic strategy – beginning at the product design stage 
and including the broader use of secondary materials in the sup-
ply  chain  as  well  as  the  recycling  of  end-of-life vehicles. The 
strategy also reduces dependence on primary raw materials at 
the same time. At all levels of in-house production, we remain 
committed to systematically conserving resources, continuously 
improving  energy  efficiency  and  further  reducing  carbon 
 emissions.

Closing material cycles 
In order to reduce the use of primary materials in the automotive 
value chain, the BMW Group endeavours to close cycles within 
the production chain and therefore returns selected production 
residues to its suppliers of material. The recovery of essential 
groups of materials at the end of a product’s life cycle can be 
significantly increased by focusing on recycling-compatible con-
cepts at the development stage, thereby enabling materials to 
be recovered and recycled for use in new production processes. 
Going forward, the cobalt, lithium and nickel used by cell manu-
facturers to produce battery cells for the BMW Group’s ↗ NEUE 
KLASSE will include a proportion of secondary materials. This 
approach reduces the need for primary materials and thus the 
sourcing of potentially critical raw materials. 
↗ Average distribution of materials in BMW Group vehicles

Already today, BMW Group vehicles are manufactured to a cer-
tain extent from recycled and reused materials. In line with the 
“ Secondary First” approach, we aim to maximise the use of sec-
ondary materials going forward, taking both technical  feasibility 
and availability into account. For this reason, within the frame-
work of selected product, material and supplier requirements, we 
 clearly specify that secondary materials will be  given preference 
in future vehicles. The BMW i Vision Circular is symbolic of our 
ambitions in this respect, by showing that it is possible to build 
a vehicle entirely out of recycled or renewable raw materials.

We encourage the return of end-of-life vehicles, components and 
materials for reuse as a secondary source of raw materials in 
order to drive the circular economy. Together with its national 
sales companies, the BMW Group has already organised the 
return of end-of-life vehicles in 30 countries and offers environ-
mentally friendly recycling at more than 2,800 points of return. 
↗ GRI Index: 301-3, 301-3, ↗ SASB Index

Secondary materials also generate fewer carbon emissions com-
pared with primary materials – for example, in the amount of up 
to 80 % for aluminium and up to 70 % for steel.* At the same 
time, this strategy avoids the need to extract natural resources 
and critical raw materials. The circularity principle therefore also 
contributes to a more effective mitigation of the risks associated 
with the extraction of primary materials, ranging from potential 
availability issues in light of market or political developments 
through to risks connected with environmental and social stand-
ards. 
↗ Purchasing and supplier network 

Any secondary materials used by the BMW Group must meet the 
same high standards as primary materials in terms of quality, 
safety and reliability.  ↗ GRI Index: 3-3 

*  Based on the Gabi database.

 
 
107

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

Production and Supplier Network

Investments in resource-friendly technologies 
Via its ↗ own venture capital fund, the BMW Group also invests in 
key technologies that can make a decisive contribution to achiev-
ing carbon neutrality and conserving natural resources. For ex-
ample, through BMW i Ventures, we have held a stake in the US 
start-up Lilac Solutions since 2021. Lilac Solutions is pursuing 
the goal of extracting lithium from the brine of saltwater deposits 
using ion exchangers in a far more eco- and resource-friendly 
way than previously possible. During the period under report, we 
continued  to  invest  in  the  resource-conserving  extraction  of 
 lithium by acquiring a stake in the company Mangrove Lithium. 
Its innovative technology makes it possible to refine and process 
both virgin and recycled lithium directly into battery-grade lithium 
using a special procedure. An additional focus of our investments 
via BMW i Ventures is on an innovative process for carbon-free 
steel production developed by US start-up Boston Metal.

Resource management at all BMW Group sites
Resource efficiency and the control of the use of resources in 
general are integral parts of the environmental management 
system in place across the BMW Group’s global production net-
work. Alongside ↗ carbon emissions, the other key variables are 
↗ energy and ↗ potable water consumption, the volume of ↗ waste 
generated and the use of ↗ VOC solvents. The BMW Group intends 
to reduce its energy and potable water consumption, waste for 
disposal, and the amount of solvents used per vehicle produced 
by 25 % in each category by 2030 (base year 2016).

A steering committee manages the international environmental 
protection network within the BMW Group. Each separate facil-
ity, area and building is assigned to an internal operator who is 
responsible  for  the  technical  systems  in  their  area  and  the 
smooth  running  of  processes  and  workflows  as  well  as  their 
 environmental impact.1

A certified environmental management system in accordance 
with ISO 14001 has been implemented at all BMW Group pro-
duction sites. Moreover, all German and Austrian sites are certi-
fied under the EMAS environmental management system. The 
BMW Group coordinates its environmental protection measures 
covering the areas Emissions, Water, Waste, Training/Qualifica-
tions and Environmental Management System in a total of five 
competence centres located worldwide. Environmental improve-
ments that have proven effective at one location are then imple-
mented at other locations to the extent possible. Continuous 
further training and the exchange of experience within the work-
force  ensure  that  relevant  knowledge  is  transferred  and  that 
learnings are applied throughout the organisation. In the year 
under  report,  our  environmental  management  system  again 
made a major contribution to ensuring that there were no signif-
icant  environmental  incidents  involving  the  payment  of  fines 
throughout the production network. 

Water
In terms of water consumption in production, the BMW Group 
aims  to  continuously  optimise  the  circulation  systems  at  its 
plants,  for  example  by  expanding  the  purification  stages  in 
wastewater treatment at the Leipzig plant. The ↗ specific potable 
water  consumption 2 , 3, 4  of the automobile production at 1.90 m3 
per vehicle produced is almost on the same level as the prevoius 
year (2021: 1.91 m3 ). 
↗ Water consumption in detail

Waste
In its efforts to reduce the total volume of waste, the BMW Group 
uses recycling and preparation concepts that are adapted to the 
specific waste streams at its various plants as well as to region-
ally applicable statutory regulations and locally available waste 
management  structures.  In  2022,  a  total  of  99.3  % 5  (2021: 
99.2 %) of the waste generated by production was either recycled 
or recovered. The BMW Group was able to reduce the proportion 
of  ↗  waste  for  disposal  per vehicle  produced 6  by  a  solid  5.5  %  to 
2.74 kg compared with the previous year (2021: 2.90 kg). We in-
tend to maintain this high level of recycling and recovery at its 

plants in the course of gradually transitioning to electric mobility. 
With this goal in mind, we are currently in the process of integrat-
ing any newly identified waste streams in our recycling and pro-
cessing systems. 
↗ GRI Index: 306-4, 306-5 ↗ Waste generation in detail ↗ SASB Index

VOC solvent emissions
The BMW Group cut its ↗ VOC solvent emissions per vehicle  produced 7, 8 
significantly by 12.9 % to 0.61 kg (2021: 0.70 kg) during the year 
under  report.  Owing  to  the  progress  made  in  the  use  of  sol-
vent-free substances and the optimisation of our paint shops, 
we expect a further reduction in emissions levels going forward. 
↗ GRI Index: 305-7 

1   In accordance with the BMW Group’s environmental management system, each operator is required 

to describe the environmental impacts in the aspects register and identify measures for improvement 
(e.g. long-term targets).

2   The efficiency indicator is calculated from potable water consumption measured for automobile 

production (BMW Group plants including BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd., excluding partner plants 
and contract manufacturing) divided by the number of vehicles produced (BMW Group plants 
including BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. and partner plants, excluding contract manufacturing).
3   Potable water consumption refers to water purchased from external water suppliers. If a BMW Group 
site does not purchase water from an external supplier, the primary source of supply is counted as 
potable water. This method applies to the BMW Group plants in San Luis Potosí (Mexico) and 
Araquari (Brazil) where groundwater is the main source of supply.

4   Potable water consumption per vehicle produced replaces the previously reported efficiency indicator 
of water consumption per vehicle produced. The previous year’s figure was adjusted for comparison 
purposes (2021 figure prior to adjustment: 2.15 m3). 

5  Waste for disposal in relation to the total weight of waste.
6   The efficiency indicator is calculated from the waste for disposal in automobile production 

(BMW Group plants including BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd., excluding partner plants and contract 
manufacturing) divided by the number of vehicles produced (BMW Group plants including 
BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. and partner plants, excluding contract manufacturing).

7   VOC solvent emissions (volatile organic compounds = VOC) are mainly generated during the painting 

process and can be reduced by deploying new painting technologies.

8   Efficiency indicator calculated from solvent emissions generated in automobile production 

(BMW Group plants including BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd., excluding partner plants and contract 
manufacturing) divided by the number of vehicles produced (BMW Group plants including 
BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. and partner plants, excluding contract manufacturing).

 
 
 
 
 
 
108

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

Production and Supplier Network

Biodiversity 
The BMW Group also takes biodiversity into account at all its 
locations. As part of this strategy, we endeavour to minimise any 
potentially negative impacts caused by its production and con-
struction activities. In addition, after analysing biodiversity with 
the help of relevant biodiversity indicators, we identify targeted 
measures with a view to creating natural habitats at selected 
sites or when planning the construction of any new buildings. 
With this strategy, we want not only to help preserve, but also to 
improve on biodiversity in and around our sites. ↗ GRI Index: 304-2 

Energy use and carbon emissions 
The BMW Group intends to reduce carbon emissions (Scope 1 
and Scope 2) at all the locations of the BMW Group by a further 
80 % on average per vehicle produced in comparison to 2019 by 
2030. Production accounts for the majority of the BMW Group’s 
↗ Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. In order to reduce emissions, we 
remain committed to a combined approach of implementing ad-
ditional energy efficiency measures, increasing the volume of 
in-house electricity generated from renewable sources, buying in 
green electricity from direct supply contracts and using certifi-
cates of origin. 

The remaining emissions are largely attributable to the use of 
natural gas. In this respect, the BMW Group faces the challenge 
of replacing natural gas with non-fossil energy sources such as 
biogas, green hydrogen or green electricity. However, the phys-
ical availability of alternative energy sources, the retrofitting of 
the technical systems and political framework conditions largely 
define the speed of the transition.

Since 2021, the BMW Group has made the remaining carbon 
emissions generated at its own plants and sites completely car-
bon-neutral by balance sheet through the use of voluntary com-
pensation certificates.1 ↗ Compensation of site-related carbon emissions 

Energy management and efficiency
The BMW Group continuously invests in improving the energy 
efficiency of its worldwide production network. With further opti-
misation measures in mind, processes are in place throughout 
the organisation to facilitate the planning and implementation of 
energy management measures. In this context, clear roles – in 
each case with corresponding responsibilities, targets and re-
porting obligations – are assigned to central strategy depart-
ments, regional management units and plants at local level.

In response to the ongoing tight supply situation for semicon-
ductor components, restrictions due to the coronavirus pandem-
ic and the impact of the war in Ukraine, production at BMW Group 
plants had to be repeatedly adjusted during the year under report. 
As a result, production volumes and therefore absolute energy 
consumption decreased slightly year-on-year. In conjunction with 
the transformation towards electric mobility, sites are being and 
have been modified, expanded and newly developed, such as 
the Lydia plant in China in 2022. ↗ Energy consumption in detail,   
↗ GRI Index: 302-1, 302-4

The amount of energy used specifically for vehicle production 
increased  slightly  to  2.13  MWh  per  vehicle  (2021:  2.10  MWh; 
+ 1.4  %).  In  absolute  terms,  energy  consumption  decreased 
slightly year-on-year to 6,295,990 MWh (2021: 6,476,955 MWh; 
– 2.8 %). 

Renewable energy
Worldwide, all Group production sites 5 and the majority of its 
other sites use electricity derived from renewable sources via 
in-house  generation,  direct  procurement  or  Energy  Attribute 
 Certificates (e.g. certificates of origin).

At present, the BMW Group is unable to entirely cover its energy 
needs by generating its own renewable energy and therefore 
purchases additional electricity from other renewable sources. 
An increasing share of our electricity requirements is covered by 
so-called Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs), i.e. direct pur-
chases from defined renewable energy generation plants, such 

Energy consumption per vehicle produced2, 3, 4

2.12
I

2.04
I

2.12
I

2.10
I

2.13
I

in MWh

0

2018 

2019 

2020 

2021 

2022

as  the  purchase  of  regional  green  electricity  to  produce  the 
BMW iX 6 and BMW i4 6.

The complex energy issues that have arisen in the wake of the 
war in Ukraine serve to reinforce the BMW Group’s declared strat-
egy of becoming more independent of fossil fuels. We are there-
fore currently in the process of auditing all our production sites 
to  ascertain  whether  natural  gas  can  be  dispensed  with  and 
replaced by sources such as biogas, hydrogen or geothermal 
energy.

1   To the degree recordable in the carbon footprint; market-based method in accordance with the  

GHG Protocol.

2   Efficiency indicator calculated from the absolute energy consumption (adjusted for CHP losses) of 
automobile production (BMW Group plants including BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd., excluding 
partner plants and contract manufacturing) divided by the number of units produced (BMW Group 
plants including BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. and partner plants, excluding contract 
manufacturing).

3  Value of the base year 2016 to the target reduction of – 25 % by 2030: 2.21.
4  Figures for 2016 and 2018 were subjected to a limited assurance review.
5  Including BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd.
6  ↗ Consumption and Carbon Disclosures. 

 
 
 
 
109

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

Production and Supplier Network

 projects that meet strict criteria, such as permanent decarboni-
sation. Furthermore, for the post-Kyoto phase of the carbon com-
pensation market, we ensure that the emissions saved are not 
counted twice with the nationally determined contributions for 
the affected countries in the Paris Climate Agreement. We also 
see it as important that the projects have a social benefit.  
↗ GRI Index: 305-5

Carbon emissions generated by transport logistics 
The BMW Group’s Green Transport Logistics project pursues the 
aim of reducing the emissions generated by transportation  within 
its global production and sales network, using a technologically 
open approach as well as carbon-efficient energy sources and 
modes of transportation. 

Using second-generation biofuel produced from residual and 
waste materials, we are reducing our carbon footprint, for exam-
ple, by selected vehicle transports via sea freight between Europe 
and South Africa, and as part of a pilot project conducted on 
public roads to supply the Group’s Munich plant. We are also 
participating in the “H2Haul” and “HyCET” research projects in 
order to gain some early experience in the use of hydrogen to 
power heavy goods vehicles.

About half of the vehicles produced by the BMW Group leave its 
plants by rail. In Germany, a significant volume of rail transport 
already runs on green power. 

CO2emissions per vehicle produced1,2

in t

0.40
I

0.35
I

0.33
I

0.32
I

0

2019 

2020 

2021 

2022

Carbon emissions at BMW Group locations
Despite lower capacity utilisation at BMW Group plants due to 
the war in Ukraine, carbon emissions per vehicle produced 1 at 
BMW Group locations fell by 3.0 % year-on-year to 0.32 t CO2 
(2020:  0.33  t  CO2). The  figure  corresponds  to  a  reduction  of 
20.0 % compared to the base year 2019. 

The absolute carbon emissions generated at BMW Group loca-
tions  were  7.9  %  below  the  previous  year  at  705,417  t  CO2 
(2021: 766,153 t CO2). The mild temperatures and savings driven 
by the threat of a gas shortage led to a reduction in the use of 
natural gas for heating purposes.  
↗ Carbon footprint ↗ GRI Index: 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-5 

Compensation of site-related carbon emissions
The carbon emissions either directly or indirectly generated by 
BMW Group locations are already within the 1.5°C pathway cal-
culated for the BMW Group. The remaining emissions 3 in the 
BMW Group’s ↗ carbon footprint Scope 1 and Scope 2 as well as 
the Scope 3 category “business travel” are neutralised by means 
of voluntary compensation certificates. The remaining carbon 
emissions are therefore verifiably compensated by promoting 
external projects. In cooperation with well-known partners such 
as  atmosfair  or  First  Climate,  we  support  climate  protection 

1   Efficiency ratio calculated on the basis of Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon emissions (i.e. a market-based 
method according to GHG Protocol Scope 2 guidance; mainly based on the use of emissions factors 
for electricity, district heating and fuels of the VDA (each in the most current valid version: 12/2022) 
and occasionally using local emissions factors; excluding climate-changing gases other than carbon 
dioxide from vehicle production (BMW Group manufacturing sites including the BMW Brilliance 
Automotive Ltd. joint venture and Motorrad, but excluding partner plants and contract 
manufacturers), as well as BMW Group non-manufacturing sites (e.g. research centres, sales centres, 
offices) divided by the number of vehicles produced (BMW Group manufacturing sites including the 
BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. joint venture and partner plants, but excluding contract 
manufacturers).

2   From 2019, this indicator includes the carbon emissions of the other BMW Group locations in addition 

to the carbon emissions generated by production.

3   To the degree recordable in the carbon footprint; market-based method in accordance with the  

GHG Protocol.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
110

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

Production and Supplier Network

P U R C H A S I N G   A N D   
S U P P L I E R   N E T W O R K

The BMW Group’s Purchasing and Supplier Network is respon-
sible  for  the  global  procurement  and  quality  assurance  of 
 production materials, raw materials, components, capital goods 
and  services  as  well  as  the  in-house  production  of  vehicle 
 components. 

The main responsibilities of the network include:
 — Ensuring security of supply to the plants 
 — Creating resilient supply chains within the geopolitical 

environment 

 — The quality assurance of components 
 — Access to innovations 
 — Cost management in competition 
 — The digitalisation of processes within the supplier network 
 — The integration of social and environmental aspects within 

the supplier network

Supply chains and supplier network
The year 2022 was dominated by fragile supply chains and rising 
prices for many materials. The cost drivers for the BMW Group’s 
Purchasing team were primarily the price hikes seen for raw ma-
terials, semiconductors, energy and transportation coupled with 
a challenging supply situation. The combined impact of supply 
bottlenecks  for  semiconductor  components,  the  temporarily 
 restricted  availability  of  wire  harnesses  owing  to  the  war  in 
Ukraine, and pandemic-related lockdowns in China led to pro-
duction interruptions worldwide, particularly in the first half of the 
year. Although the situation eased slightly during the second six-
month period, global supply chains remained in a fragile state. 
↗ Outlook, ↗ Risks and opportunities 

The BMW Group follows the principle of procuring vehicle com-
ponents close to its production sites to the extent possible and 
is therefore represented by local teams in all its key purchasing 
markets, in order to identify risks promptly and respond flexibly 
to the respective market circumstances. In the face of geostra-
tegic aspects, a resilient strategy for the Group’s supply chains 
is also becoming increasingly important and the BMW Group 
takes this fact into account when selecting its  partners.

In-house production: a competitive advantage
The  BMW  Group  regularly  examines  its  range  of  products  in 
terms of their profitability and strategic importance. A special 
focus is currently on e-mobility. In this central area of transfor-
mation, the BMW Group is building up its own skill sets in stra-
tegically important components, particularly in areas where tech-
nology is not competitively available on the market. The in-house 
production of certain key components also helps us to improve 
the level of supply security and thus gain a competitive advan-
tage. At the same time, we are looking to strengthen our pro-
cess-related expertise in technologies relevant for quality man-
agement  within the supplier network.

Quality assurance 
Quality is a vital competitive factor and of key importance for 
ensuring customer satisfaction. Our quality experts monitor the 
entire product development process, including the phases of in-
dustrialisation and series production. Regular visits to suppliers 
and a preventive, systematic review of all processes are aimed 
at ensuring the agreed quality.  

Regional distribution of 
BMW Group*

China 
17.8 %

Other
Western Europe 
12.6 %

North America 
14.2 %

Total
€ 85.5 billion

Other
4.0 % 

Germany
33.7 % 

Eastern Europe
17.7 % 

Raw materials security and strategy 
The volatile situation on energy and raw materials markets had 
a major impact on purchasing over the course of 2022. There are 
signs of increasing competition for the raw materials required to 
drive forward electric mobility. With the help of measures such 
as the direct purchase of lithium and cobalt, the BMW Group is 
making itself technologically and regionally less dependent on 
individual deposits and suppliers. Direct purchasing in Australia, 
Argentina and Morocco underpin our dual intention of securing 
raw material supplies, whilst also maintaining our high sustain-
ability standards, particularly in supply chains involving critical 
raw materials. At the same time, the BMW Group analyses the 
development of raw materials prices and hedges against price 
fluctuations – provided the capital market offers the opportunity 
to do so. ↗ Raw materials price risks and opportunities 

*  Direct and indirect purchasing;  

this includes the entire year 2022 for BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd.

 
 
 
 
 
111

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

Production and Supplier Network

Our  commitment  to  upholding  environmental  and  social 
 standards as well as human rights in our raw materials supply 
chains is enshrined in the ↗ BMW Group Supplier Code of Conduct and 
the  ↗  High-level  commitment  to  sustainable  natural  rubber  among 
 others. The BMW Group Supplier Code of Conduct also requires 
Tier-1  suppliers  to  demand  minimum  standards  within  their 
sub-supplier chains.

Annual risk analyses regarding the BMW Group’s sustainability 
standards are the starting point for raw materials-related hedg-
ing  activities  that  are  designed  to  reduce  environmental  and 
human rights risks. Key levers in this respect are to forgo, sub-
stitute or reduce the use of primary risk raw materials. We also 
focus in particular on cooperating closely with our partners in the 
supplier network as well as in multi-stakeholder initiatives and 
projects. We use scientific findings to gain an even better under-
standing of the raw material extraction process and to take it into 
account accordingly when analysing the level of risk in order to 
further reduce any negative impacts. 

The BMW Group places a particular focus on so-called “conflict 
minerals” and uses standardised Responsible Minerals Initiative 
(RMI) tools to ensure that the raw materials deployed can be 
traced back to the smelter. It uses existing certifications to ensure 
the origin of other raw materials. The BMW Group is also involved 
in developing certified standards for critical stages of the value 
chain, for example as part of the Initiative for Responsible Mining 
Assurance (IRMA), and subsequently applies them. Further de-
tails and raw materials profiles are available ↗ online. ↗ SASB Index

Moreover, the BMW Group has set itself the goal of generating a 
positive impact for selected raw materials through our involve-
ment in local development projects. During the year under report, 
for example, we initiated a project with a locally based NGO to 
improve living conditions associated with the mining of the raw 
material mica in India.

Purchasing battery cells 
As of 2025, the BMW Group plans to deploy a new generation of 
battery cells. We have therefore concluded agreements with our 
partners that guarantee annual production capacities of 40 GWh 
in Europe, 40 GWh in China and 30 GWh in the USA. Via this 
strategy, the Company is reinforcing its “local for local” approach 
by sourcing battery cells regionally where our production facilities 
are located. The BMW Group will also use secondary raw mate-
rials  to  replace  the  primary  raw  materials  cobalt,  lithium  and 
nickel in the new generation of battery cells and purchase green 
electricity in order to further reduce the size of our carbon foot-
print in the supply chain. ↗ Carbon emissions in the supply chain

Supply security 
To  cushion  the  impact  of  the  ongoing  war  in  Ukraine  on  our 
 European plants, the BMW Group has introduced a comprehen-
sive raft of measures with its partners and therefore continues 
to source components from western Ukraine. At the same time, 
our partners have established additional production sites outside 
Ukraine and the supply of wiring harnesses to our plants has 
returned to normal as a result.

Lockdowns in China designed to contain the coronavirus pan-
demic kept supply chains on tenterhooks, not to mention the 
challenging supply situation for semiconductors. In an effort to 
mitigate the worldwide shortage of semiconductors, among  other 
measures the BMW Group has entered into supply agreements 
involving increased levels of buffer stock when placing orders, as 
well as the direct purchase of strategically important semicon-
ductors. 

Risk management in purchasing 
An interconnected risk management system is fundamental for 
managing  the  supplier  network.  With  this  point  in  mind,  the 
 Company has established a RiskHub that analyses information 
from  external,  publicly  available  data  sources  with  regard  to 
 potential risks such as natural disasters or financial risks. We 
also employ state-of-the-art methods derived from the fields of 
AI  and  big  data  analytics.  For  selected  issues  such  as  semi-

conductor  component  supplies,  we  also  take  account  of  the 
 locations of sub-suppliers in our risk assessment, thus enabling 
us to  respond rapidly and counter supply bottlenecks preventive-
ly. The RiskHub is subject to continuous improvement.

In order to avoid cyber risks and provide adequate protection, we 
analyse the entire value chain. The BMW Group expects its part-
ners to provide evidence of a preventive and responsive level of 
security. We require our partners to provide information security 
certificates in accordance with the TISAX automotive standard, 
and monitor their implementation. Collaborative IT security anal-
yses and a constant exchange of information additionally bolster 
resilience in the supplier network. The awareness of cyber risks 
is raised internally through training and information campaigns. 
Externally, the BMW Group supports its business partners with 
a regular flow of information. 

Innovations
Cooperation in the supplier network based on trust and the de-
velopment of new partnerships is essential for us when it comes 
to swiftly deploying innovations in the products on offer. In this 
context, we work closely with the ↗ BMW Startup Garage and ↗ BMW 
i Ventures. At Newcomer Day 2022, selected start-ups presented 
a broad range of future technologies – including our new partner 
for innovative natural fibre composite solutions.

The highly innovative achievements of start-ups are also  reflected 
in the ↗ BMW Supplier Innovation Award. During the year under report, 
various companies won awards in the categories of e-mobility, 
sustainability, digitalisation, customer experience, exceptional 
team performance and Newcomer of the Year, which are essen-
tial for driving forward transformation. 

112

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

Production and Supplier Network

Digitalisation in the supply chain 
A digital flow of information throughout the supply chain is a 
prerequisite for more resilient and flexible supply chain manage-
ment. 

↗ Catena-X is one of the largest ongoing projects in the automotive 
industry. It is open to all BMW Group partners and designed to 
enable data exchange across the various levels of the value chain 
between automotive manufacturers and their suppliers. With the 
platform due to be launched in 2023, Catena-X is expected to 
offer an end-to-end solution that will lead to closer and even 
more coordinated cooperation between partners. One of our aims 
is to improve transparency and response speed by regularly com-
paring the demand and capacity situation in order to adjust the 
supply of parts at short notice. Further improvements are expect-
ed for the network partners, whether raw materials suppliers, 
n-Tier  suppliers  or  automotive  manufacturers,  for  example  in 
terms  of  delivery  reliability  and  customer  satisfaction.  At  the 
same time, costs can be effectively cut by improving capacity 
utilisation and avoiding special procurement processes. Record-
ing carbon emissions data in supply chains enables measures 
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to be agreed upon and their 
effectiveness verified going forward. The BMW Group has already 
begun preparations for the pilot tests of the initial applications.

Social and environmental responsibility 
The BMW Group considers responsible supply chain manage-
ment as an integral part of good corporate governance. Against 
the backdrop of the Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (Lieferket-
tensorgfaltspflichtengesetz), the BMW Group continued to de-
velop its well-established processes during the year under report. 
The BMW Group’s requirements and the expectations it places 
on its suppliers are set out in the ↗ BMW Group Supplier Code of Con-
duct. ↗ GRI Index: 2-23, 3-3, 407-1, 408-1

Due diligence in the supplier network
A multi-stage due diligence process has been established across 
all relevant areas of the organisation to delineate our responsi-
bility for the supplier network. A comprehensive description of 
the due diligence process can be found ↗ online.

The BMW Group is committed to the application of standardised 
procedures and a cooperative approach with a view to imple-
menting the due diligence obligations that are integrated in its 
business processes and avoiding redundant activities. For this 
reason, we engage in the Sector Dialogue Automotive Industry 
initiative, for example to develop guidelines for action and create 
an industry-wide grievance mechanism.

 — Risk analysis 

The BMW Group monitors and assesses sustainability and 
human rights risks in its supplier network, including its busi-
ness relationships with both potential and active supplier 
locations. Among other strategies, we use risk filters and 
media analyses to identify abstract environmental and hu-
man rights risks, as well as standardised sustainability ques-
tionnaires and audits to conduct specific risk analysis at our 
Tier-1 suppliers. Supply chain mapping forms the basis for 
analysing risks at n-Tier suppliers. 
↗ GRI Index: 2-24, 308-1, 414-1

 — Prevention and remediation

Prior to signing a contract with the BMW Group, suppliers are 
required to implement any necessary preventive or remedial 
measures to minimise potential risks or eliminate any deficits 
that may have been identified – including those in the areas 
of corporate governance, human rights and working condi-
tions, health and safety, and environmental protection – by 
an agreed target date, no later than the start of production, 
and to demand that these measures are also complied with 
by  subcontractors.  ↗  Further  GRI  Information,  ↗  Sustainability 
 assessment of relevant supplier sites The extent of the preventive 
measures is partially based on the potential risks, the nature 
and scope of the business activity and the size of the suppli-

er. Alongside its preventive measures, the BMW Group offers 
a training programme on sustainability in the supply chain 
aimed at internal buyers and process partners as well as 
suppliers. ↗ GRI Index: 2-24, 308-2, 414-2

 — Effectiveness and grievance mechanisms

For suppliers operating in high-risk regions or high-risk prod-
uct  groups,  the  BMW  Group  has  implemented  additional 
control mechanisms, such as audits of environmental and 
social standards at supplier locations using its own auditors 
or external auditors. The Group reviewed a total of 49 poten-
tial and active supplier locations via this method during the 
year under report (2021: 38)1, 2. We have set ourselves the 
target of ensuring that all Tier-1 supplier sites that have been 
audited meet the locally applicable legal requirements for 
sustainability as well as international human rights standards 
(BMW Group minimum requirements). In 2022, the final au-
dits confirmed that all cases of non-compliance with mini-
mum requirements (non-conformities) that were identified in 
initial audits had been redressed.

The internal Human Rights Contact Supply Chain unit deals 
with any indications of possible violations of the  sustainability 
requirements stipulated by the BMW Group for the supplier 
network. We also use the standardised RBA Voices grievance 
mechanism  as  a  complementary  measure.  In  addition, 
↗  whistle-blower systems to detect possible legal violations are in 
place and compliance checks performed. Our aim is to ensure 
that any substantiated reports of environmental or human 
rights  violations  are  redressed  by  agreeing  on  corrective 
measures. 

1   The audits carried out worldwide were conducted to a large extent in accordance with the standards 

of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA). 

2   The number of audits reported in the previous year totalled 196 and was adjusted for purposes of 

comparison, as Environmental Performance Assessments (EPA) in China will no longer be included in 
the metric from 2022 due to the Group’s new environmental and social audit requirements. 

 
 
 
 
113

BMW Group Report 2022

To Our Stakeholders

Combined Management Report

Group Financial Statements

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Remuneration Report

Other Information

Production and Supplier Network

Agreements reached with suppliers regarding carbon reduction 
measures in production scenarios already began to take effect 
in 2022. Together with an external auditor, the BMW Group has 
developed a concept for verifying compliance with these agree-
ments  and  confirmed  compliance  with  contractually  agreed 
↗  carbon-reducing measures in the supplier chain at 23 suppliers in the 
course of 2022. As a result, the BMW Group helped reduce car-
bon  emissions  at  the  production  facilities  of  its  suppliers  by 
 approximately 1.0 million tonnes in the reporting period.4

The Group also continues to rely on the Carbon Disclosure Project 
(CDP) supply chain programme to assess supply chain perfor-
mance in terms of its decarbonisation commitment. Measures 
relevant for supplier development and empowerment are also 
derived from the programme. In 2022, 247 suppliers took part in 
the rating (84 % of the production-relevant purchasing volume). 

If necessary, the BMW Group temporarily suspends a given 
business relationship during efforts to mitigate the detected 
risk. However, the business relationship will only be termi-
nated if no other effective means are available and we are 
unable to further leverage our ability to exert influence. We 
endeavour to avoid this latter situation by carefully selecting 
our suppliers and empowering and working with them to im-
prove their sustainability performance. No existing supplier 
relationship needed to be terminated due to serious sustain-
ability violations during the year under report.  
↗ GRI Index: 2-24, 3-3, 308-1, 414-1

Carbon emissions in the supply chain 
The BMW Group is pressing ahead with its efforts to decarbonise 
its own supply chain. The Group’s goal is to reduce carbon emis-
sions generated in the supply chain by more than 20 % per ve-
hicle by 2030 (base year 2019) 1. For this reason, the Group has 
established a firm commitment to make carbon-reducing meas-
ures 2 an award criterion in its supplier network. We specifically 
empower suppliers via the BMW Group Partner Portal and addi-
tionally provide face-to-face formats for conducting partner work-
shops at our plant in Landshut (Germany). ↗ GRI Index: 3-3

In 2022, the number of contractual agreements with suppliers on 
carbon-reducing measures increased to 468 awards (2021: 429 
awards), including agreements on the use of secondary raw ma-
terials, biomaterials and carbon-reduced steel routes. However, 
in our view, green electricity offers the greatest potential for re-
ducing carbon emissions in the supply chain. The BMW Group 
makes its use 2 for direct suppliers (Tier-1) and energy-intensive 
processes in the upstream chain (n-Tier) a criterion for awarding 
new contracts to manufacture carbon-intensive components and 
materials. During the year under report, we concluded agree-
ments for 343 contracts (2021: 427 contracts). In addition, since 
mid-2021 the BMW Group has concluded framework agreements 
with 46 of its largest suppliers regarding the use of green elec-
tricity 3 to manufacture its components. 

1   For the sake of simplicity, this figure has been rounded. The target validated under SBTi is 22 %.
2   For the BMW Group this includes measures to reduce carbon emissions. Correspondingly, this does 

not include any compensation measures.

3   In-house generation, direct purchase or Energy Attributes Certificates (e.g. certificates of origin).
4   The carbon reductions achieved in the year under report resulting from measures agreed upon with 

suppliers were not taken into account when calculating the ↗ Carbon footprint. 

 
