Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

37

Operating on a global scale, the BMW Group employed 
a workforce of 120,726 people at the end of the year 
under report. In 2020, the BMW Group consolidated its 
position as one of the world’s most attractive employers. 
Its leading role in terms of sustainability also contributes 
to employee loyalty within the BMW Group. 

The BMW Group comprises BMW AG itself and all 
subsidiaries over which BMW AG has either direct or in-
direct control. BMW AG is also responsible for managing 
the Group, which is sub-divided into the Automotive, 
Motorcycles and Financial Services operating segments. 
The Other Entities segment primarily comprises holding 
companies and Group financing companies.

THE TRANSFORMATION OF MOBILITY AND THE 
ADVANCE OF DIGITALISATION ARE OPPORTUNITIES.

ORGANISATION AND  
BUSINESS MODEL

Mobility patterns worldwide, and hence the entire 
automotive industry, are currently undergoing profound 
change. We see this transformation as an opportunity to 
set new industry standards and innovate in the fields of 
electrification, connectivity and automated driving. 

Digitalisation provides us with an excellent oppor-
tunity to take a fundamentally new approach to devel-
oping products for the benefit of our customers. We 
not only react to customer wishes, but also anticipate 
them through a good understanding of their preferences. 
Moreover, digitalisation enables us to redesign processes 
throughout the entire organisation.

WE ARE MOVING FORWARD IN OUR OWN 
 INDEPENDENT WAY.

As societal values as well as demographic and tech-
nological conditions change, new demands on mobility 
solutions are constantly emerging. The ambition to fulfil 
those wishes and needs is the force that drives us for-
ward. We are taking steps to ensure a viable future for 
our business by developing innovatively, sustainably and 
independently.

General information on the BMW Group is provid-
ed below. There have been no significant changes in 
the Group’s structure compared to the previous year. 
 Bayerische Motoren Werke Aktiengesellschaft (BMW AG), 
based in Munich, Germany, is the parent company of the 
BMW Group.

The starting point for the BMW Group’s corporate 
strategy is to act in a consistent manner on a custom-
er-oriented  and  sustainable  basis.  Products,  brands 
and services are currently being developed with a clear 
focus on innovative technologies such as low-emissions 
drivetrains, digitalisation, connectivity and autonomous 
driving.

The BMW Group is one of the most successful manu-
facturers of automobiles and motorcycles in the premium 
segment worldwide. With BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce, 
the BMW Group owns three of the best-known premium 
brands in the automotive industry. It also holds a strong 
market position in the premium segment of the motorcy-
cle business. The Group sets itself clear goals in terms of 
sustainable, individual mobility, resource-efficient value 
creation, the continued development of its workforce 
potential and its contribution to society. Sustainability 
is an integral part of the Group’s business model and 
plays a vital role in ensuring its viability going forward. 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

BMW GROUP LOCATIONS WORLDWIDE

Headquarters

Canada

USA

Mexico

United  
Arab Emirates

Brazil

Argentina *

South Africa

New Zealand

38

42

Sales subsidiaries and  
Financial  Services  
locations worldwide

31

Production and   
assembly plants

13

Countries with research  
and development locations

 Sales subsidiaries and  
Financial  Services

*  Sales locations only.

Russia

India

China

South Korea

Japan

Hong Kong

Thailand

Malaysia

Singapore

Indonesia *

Australia

 Production outside Europe
  BMW Group plant Araquari, Brazil
  BMW Group plant Chennai, India
  BMW Group plant Manaus, Brazil
  BMW Group plant Rayong, Thailand

 BMW Group plant Rosslyn, South Africa
 BMW Group plant San Luis Potosí, Mexico

  BMW Group plant Spartanburg, USA
 BMW Brilliance Automotive, China  
(joint venture – 3 plants)

   Partner plants outside Europe
  Partner plant, Chongqing, China
  Partner plant, Hosur, India
  Partner plant, Jakarta, Indonesia
  Partner plant, Cairo, Egypt
  Partner plant, Kulim, Malaysia 

   Research and development  

network outside Europe
 BMW Group Designworks, Newbury Park, USA
 BMW Group Technology Office USA, Mountain View, 
USA
 BMW Group Engineering and Emission Test  Center, 
Oxnard, USA
 BMW Group ConnectedDrive Lab China,  Shanghai, 
China, and BMW Group Designworks Studio 
 Shanghai, China
 BMW Group Technology Office, Shanghai, China

 BMW Group Engineering China, Beijing, China
 BMW Group Engineering Japan, Tokyo, Japan
 BMW Group Engineering USA, Woodcliff Lake, USA
 BMW Group IT Technology Office, Greenville, USA
 BMW Group IT Technology Office, Singapore
 BMW Group IT DevOps Hub, Rosslyn, South Africa
 BMW do Brasil, Araquari, Brazil
 BMW Group Technology Office Tel Aviv, Tel Aviv, Israel
 BMW Group R&D Center Seoul, Seoul, South Korea

BMW GroupReport 2020 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

BMW GROUP LOCATIONS IN EUROPE

Norway

Germany

The Netherlands

UK

Ireland

Belgium / Luxembourg

France

Switzerland

Italy

Slovenia *

Spain

Portugal *

*  Sales locations only.

  Production in Europe
  BMW Group plant Berlin
  BMW Group plant Dingolfing
  BMW Group plant Eisenach
  BMW Group plant Landshut
  BMW Group plant Leipzig
  BMW Group plant Munich

39

Sweden

Finland *

Denmark

Czech
Republic

Poland

Austria

Slovakia 

Hungary *

Romania *

Bulgaria *

Greece

   Research and development network in Europe
 BMW Group Research and Innovation Centre (FIZ), 
Munich, Germany
 BMW Car IT, Munich, Germany
 BMW Group Autonomous Driving Campus, 
 Unterschleißheim, Germany
 BMW Group Designworks, Munich, Germany
 BMW Group Lightweight Construction and 
 Technology Center, Landshut, Germany
 BMW Group Diesel Competence Centre, Steyr, Austria
 Critical TechWorks S.A., Porto, Portugal
  BMW France, S. A. S., Montigny, France
  Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Ltd., Goodwood, UK

  BMW Group plant Regensburg
  BMW Group plant Wackersdorf 
  BMW Group plant Steyr, Austria
  BMW Group plant Hams Hall, UK
  BMW Group plant Oxford, UK
  BMW Group plant Swindon, UK

 Rolls-Royce Manufacturing Plant, Goodwood, UK

    Partner plants in Europe

 Partner plant, Born, the Netherlands
 Partner plant, Graz, Austria
 Partner plant, Kaliningrad, Russia

BMW GroupReport 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40

FINANCIAL SERVICES SEGMENT

The BMW Group is a leading provider of financial 
services in the automotive sector. It offers these services 
in around 60 countries worldwide via companies and 
cooperation arrangements with local financial services 
providers  and  importers.  The  Financial  Services  seg-
ment’s main business is credit financing and the leasing 
of BMW Group brand automobiles and motorcycles to 
retail customers. Customers can also choose from an 
attractive array of insurance and banking products. 

Operating  under  the  brand  name  Alphabet,  the 
BMW Group’s international multi-brand fleet business 
provides financing and comprehensive management ser-
vices for corporate car fleets in more than 20 countries. 
These services also include helping customers to manage 
their fleets on a sustainable and climate-friendly basis. 

Financing dealership vehicle fleets serves to support 
the dealership organisation and rounds off the segment’s 
range of services. 
 Products and Services

The MINI brand promises driving pleasure in the 
premium small car segment and, apart from models pow-
ered by efficient combustion engines, also offers plug-
in hybrid and fully electric variants. Rolls-Royce is the 
ultimate marque in the ultra-luxury segment, boasting a 
tradition that stretches back over more than 100 years. 
Rolls-Royce Motor Cars specialises in bespoke customer 
specifications and offers the very highest level of quality 
and service.

The global sales network of the BMW Group’s automo-
bile business currently comprises more than 3,500 BMW, 
over 1,600 MINI and some 140 Rolls-Royce dealerships. 

MOTORCYCLES SEGMENT

The  Motorcycles  business  is  also  clearly  focused 
on the premium segment. The model range currently 
comprises  motorcycles  in  the  Sport,  Tour,  Roadster, 
Heritage,  Adventure  and  Urban  Mobility  categories. 
BMW  Motor rad also offers a broad range of equipment 
options to enhance rider safety and comfort. The Mo-
torcycles business sales network is organised similarly 
to that of the automobiles business. Currently, BMW 
motorcycles are sold by more than 1,200 dealerships and 
importers in over 90 countries. 

Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

PRESENTATION OF SEGMENTS

In order to provide a better insight into the Group as 
a whole, this report also contains separate presentations 
of the Automotive, Motorcycles and Financial Services 
operating segments.

AUTOMOTIVE SEGMENT

The BMW brand caters to a wide variety of customer 
requirements. Its model portfolio comprises an extensive 
range of automobiles, including the premium compact 
class,  the  premium  mid-size  luxury  class  and  the  ul-
tra-luxury class. Apart from fully electric models such 
as the BMW iX3*, which was launched in 2020, it also 
includes state-of-the-art plug-in hybrids and conventional 
models powered by highly efficient combustion engines. 
Together with the highly successful models of the BMW 
X family and the high-performance BMW M brand, the 
BMW Group meets the diverse expectations and needs 
of its customers worldwide.

*  See 

  Fuel Consumption and CO2 Emissions Information. 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

STRATEGY, GOALS AND 
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM

STRATEGIC ORIENTATION OF THE BMW GROUP

Individual mobility, as the BMW Group understands 
it, is inextricably linked with conserving the world’s nat-
ural resources. The BMW Group bases its contribution 
to the sustainable development of our planet on scien-
tifically derived criteria. With this principle in mind, it 
combines ecological and social aspects with securing its 
long-term future in all its activities. The BMW Group 
views the combination of driving pleasure and respon-
sibility for acting sustainably as a clear factor for dif-
ferentiation. The outcome is that customers experience 
outstanding innovative products made by a company 
focused on sustainability.

However,  that  is  merely  the  starting  point  for  the 
BMW Group, which intends to integrate sustainability 
more strongly than ever in its corporate strategy. The 
strategy establishes the necessary conditions to fulfill 
both customer expectations and regulatory requirements 
regarding emissions in the Group’s various markets by 
offering a wide range of products. Its clear ambition is to 
ensure that all areas of the company think, manage and 
demonstrably act in a true spirit of sustainability.

This way of thinking has resulted in the BMW Group 
reaching the logical strategic decision to move away from 
pursuing a separate sustainability strategy and present-
ing a separate sustainable value report. Sustainability is 

41

the basic pattern that shapes the BMW Group’s strategy. 
From beginning to end, activities and plans should com-
prehensively be examined with regard to their economic, 
ecological and social impacts and the corresponding 
decisions taken based on an integrated approach. With 
effect from the financial year 2020, the Group is there-
fore integrating its reporting. A Group Report of this 
nature covers a variety of key aspects and endeavours 
to highlight correlations in a transparent manner. The 
BMW Group is therefore consciously subjecting all of its 
activities to a comprehensive external audit, including 
its activities in the area of sustainability.

THE STRATEGY ARROW – POINTING THE WAY 
TO THE FUTURE

The BMW Group’s strategy comprises four key ele-
ments, which are summarised in a strategy arrow that 
points towards the future.

POSITION – WHAT DOES THE BMW GROUP  
STAND FOR?

The  BMW  Group  stands  for  first-class  individual 
mobility and sustained responsibility. These factors pro-
vide transparency and reliability for shareholders and 
investors as well as for partners in the supply chain and 
the production and sales system, but also for all other 
stakeholders, political decision makers, the media and 
the general public.

The BMW Group considers itself as a pioneer and 
sets standards for the individual mobility of tomorrow. It 
combines joy and responsibility without compromise and, 
together with its partners, leads the industry in terms 
of environmental, social and integrity standards. The 
BMW Group is committed to complying with the  Paris 
Climate Agreement – with a verifiable track record of 
continuous improvement. It is promoting the principles 
of circular economy, both in its corporate philosophy and 
in close collaboration with its partners – from the supply 
chain to production, the use phase and the recycling of 
its products.

Position

Direction

Strategic  
approach 

Collaboration

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

DIRECTION – WHAT IS THE BMW GROUP’S 
 DRIVING FORCE?

Its aspiration to manufacture products that will in-
spire its customers – both today and in the future. That is 
the force that drives the BMW Group. At the same time, 
the Group strives to achieve a high level of profitability 
in order to safeguard its corporate independence and 
distinctively shape the mobility trends of the future. The 
integration of ecological and social aspects throughout 
its entire value chain ensures the continued viability of 
the BMW Group going forward.

The Group is built on a firm foundation of strong 
brands and emotional products. In the face of increasing-
ly fierce competition, the BMW Group continues to hone 
its brand profiles and express them, among other ways, 
in a unique, characteristic automotive design language. 
Design arouses emotions and emotion drives desire. At 
the  BMW  Group,  outstanding  design  always  follows 
function. The kidney-shaped grille of the new BMW iX, 
for example, takes on a new role as a smart surface that 
not only conceals new technologies, but has the ability 
to self-heal due to the use of innovative materials, so that 
slight scratches disappear by themselves. 
 Innovation and 
Customer Orientation

The products must deliver what their design prom-
ises,  i. e.  sportiness,  quality  and  emotionality,  a  fact 
that applies equally to all drivetrain technologies. The 
BMW Group is a leading supplier of electrified vehicles, 
the foundation for which was laid at an early stage by 
project i with the all-electric BMW i3 in 2013. Mean-
while, the Group is in the middle of its second phase: 
In order to keep pace with growing market demand, it 
is expanding its offering of electric drivetrains across all 
segments. With its flexible platforms and the fifth gen-
eration of in-house developed fully electric drive trains, 
the BMW Group can offer its customers worldwide a 
broad and mature range of products. For example, the 
all-electric MINI Cooper SE * and the BMW iX3 * were 
both launched in the course of 2020 and will be followed 
by the BMW i4 and the BMW iX * in 2021. 

In future, models such as the high-volume BMW 5 Se-
ries and the X1 as well as the BMW 7 Series will be available 
with four different types of drivetrain – all-electric, plug-in 
hybrid, petrol and diesel. Moreover, the BMW Group is 
preparing for the third phase of its transformation with a 
new vehicle architecture starting in the mid-2020s. Over 
the next ten years, the Group intends to have more than 
seven million of its electrified vehicles on roads world-
wide – at least two-thirds of them all-electric models.

42

With this aim in mind, the BMW Group is system-
atically expanding its product range and progressively 
enhancing both its technologies and its vehicle archi-
tectures, the latest of which are entirely centred on fully 
electric drivetrain systems. At the same time, the Group 
is taking another major step in terms of digitalised con-
nectivity, not only within the vehicle itself, but also in 
its corporate processes. 

As part of its Performance Programme, the BMW 
Group is also working to continuously raise its level of 
efficiency in order to compensate for the high upfront 
expenditures required for the technologies that will shape 
the world of tomorrow. Profitability and free cash flow 
have a high priority within the BMW Group’s corporate 
management system. All the measures and initiatives it 
takes are therefore aimed at continually developing its 
strong economic base. 

*  See 

  Fuel Consumption and CO2 Emissions Information. 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

Moreover, to express the importance of its ability to 
perform in economic terms, the BMW Group has set it-
self ambitious financial targets in the course of realigning 
its strategy. In future, the key performance indicators 
(KPIs) already used in the annual outlook, namely

1.  Profit before financial result as a percentage of Auto-
motive segment revenues (EBIT margin Automotive 
segment) and 

2.  Return on capital employed for the Automotive seg-

ment (RoCE Automotive segment)

will also be integrated as KPIs at the strategic level. The 
aim is for the Automotive segment’s EBIT margin to rise 
steadily again to between 8 % and 10 % and for the RoCE 
to reach a level of at least 40 % in the future.

The two segment-related profitability indicators will 

be supplemented by the KPI

3.  Group profit before tax as a percentage of Group 

revenues (BMW Group EBT margin).

With this strategy, the BMW Group intends to gen-
erate a Group EBT margin in excess of 10 %. In terms of 
KPIs, the equivalent to Group EBT margin for corporate 
management purposes is Group profit before tax (EBT). 
 Outlook

 Management System and 

43

With regard to free cash flow, the BMW Group focus-
es particularly on capital expenditure and the systematic 
management of working capital. 

STRATEGIC APPROACH – WHERE IS THE 
BMW GROUP HEADING?

Even  faster  digitalised  processes  and  lean  struc-
tures are key prerequisites for consistently leveraging 
efficiencies.  During  the  coronavirus  pandemic  year 
2020, for example, advances in digitalisation enabled 
the BMW Group to maintain direct contact with its cus-
tomers, despite lockdowns worldwide. Digitalisation is 
helping to shorten the process of developing new vehicle 
models by up to one-third. When the BMW Group transi-
tions to the more advanced smart vehicle architectures in 
2021, the conventional drivetrain variants will be largely 
phased out to make way for electrified drivetrains such 
as mild hybrid, plug-in hybrid and fully electric systems. 
These results will already begin to take effect from 2022.

Moreover,  as  one  of  its  efficiency  initiatives,  the 
Group regularly assesses how complexity can be rea-
sonably reduced. Complexity arises due to increasingly 
strict and globally heterogeneous regulatory require-
ments. The Group-wide Performance Programme also 
includes making the most of synergies and efficiencies 
in indirect purchasing as well as in terms of materials 
and production costs. And it goes without saying that 
the BMW Group is selectively bolstering its performance 
with attractive new models – especially in segments gen-
erating the highest returns.

The BMW Group places the strategic emphasis on its 
customers and their varying requirements worldwide. In 
the BMW Group, trendsetting technologies, emotional 
products and individualised customer service merge to 
create a unique overall experience for customers.

Its strategy is therefore of a dynamic nature. On the 
one hand, the Group’s market environment is charac-
terised by stable trends. This includes people’s need for 
individual mobility, which the BMW Group is convinced 
will remain strong and grow further in the years to come. 
On the other hand, however, it needs to be able to re-
spond to uncertain developments both flexibly and with 
a sense of proportion. These developments can be of a 
(geo)political nature, but also come in the form of fully 
unexpected events such as the coronavirus pandemic. 
In 2020, the Board of Management realigned the core 
elements of the BMW Group’s strategy and focused them 
on the key technology areas that are expected to shape 
the future.

Innovative technologies are the key to the future 
of mobility going forward. By 2025, the BMW Group 
intends  to  invest  more  than  € 30 billion  in  research 
and  development  to  reinforce  its  role  as  a  leader  of 
innovation. The Group’s plans are also an expression 
of confidence in terms of the way it sees business de-
veloping going forward. Its ability to integrate a broad 
variety of technologies in an overall system is of crucial 
importance. Companies that succeed in mastering and 
combining both hardware and software in equal measure 
are those which will shape the future of the automobile 
in the long term. 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

44

HOW DOES THE BMW GROUP  
ENSURE COOPERATION?

SUSTAINABILITY PLACED AT CORE  
OF CORPORATE STRATEGY 

To achieve its strategic goals, the entire team of some 
121,000 employees worldwide needs to work in a spirit 
of cooperation to implement the strategy, based on the 
principles of responsibility, appreciation, transparency, 
trust and openness. The BMW Group therefore works 
hand in glove with both internal and external partners 
with the twin aims of achieving maximum effectiveness 
and joint success.

The  Group  needs  to  tackle  the  entrepreneurial, 
eco logical and social challenges in equal measure to 
accomplish these aims. Decisions need to be analysed 
with regard to their interactions and consequences in the 
overall context. Success is not something to be simply 
taken for granted, but has to be worked for every day 
anew. Everyone needs to work hard for “their” company 
and deliver maximum performance in order to reach the 
common goal. Success in corporate terms is always the 
joint success of all BMW Group employees together with 
their partners. For this reason, it is also a key aspiration 
of the BMW Group to be an attractive employer. 

Sustainability is intrinsic to the BMW Group’s stra-
tegic orientation. At the end of July 2020, the Board of 
Management of BMW AG announced the first details of 
this strategy and presented targets to which the enter-
prise will remain committed for the period up to 2030. 
In this endeavour, the BMW Group is building on a solid 
foundation. In recent years and decades, it has also re-
peatedly set standards in sustainability that are acknowl-
edged by external, independent bodies. In 2020, for 
example, the BMW Group took back industry leadership 
in the automotive sector in the Dow Jones Sustainability 
Indices World and Europe. The BMW Group therefore 
occupies the top spot among automotive manufacturers 
 Dialogue with Stakeholders. It is also in the top CDP grouping 
for its transparent disclosure of carbon emissions. The 
principle of continuous improvement has always been a 
key aspect of the BMW Group's strategy. 

The  Group  has  therefore  given  a  commitment  to 
achieve climate neutrality across the entire value chain 
by no later than 2050. In view of the long-term nature 
of its targets and the fact that, from today’s perspective, 

the technological and economic route remains uncertain, 
the BMW Group sets its targets one decade at a time. 
In 2020, for example, the Group set itself specific goals 
for the year 2030 based on scientific information. New 
science-based targets have emerged from the initiative of 
the same name (SBTI). These targets are fully in line with 
the requirements of the Paris Climate Agreement and put 
the BMW Group on the path towards climate neutrality.

Carbon  emissions  are  to  be  reduced  by  at  least 
one-third per vehicle over the entire life cycle, from the 
supply chain to production to the end-of-life phase. The 
BMW Group expects environmental and social stand-
ards to be upheld by all participants in the supply chain, 
including those delivering critical raw materials. The 
BMW Group aims to ensure the most sustainable supply 
chain in the industry.

BMW GroupReport 2020 
NEW AND AMBITIOUS TARGET FRAMEWORK BY 2030 

The corresponding key non-financial performance 

45

The BMW Group is firmly convinced that the fight 
against climate change and the responsible use of re-
sources will determine the future of our society – and 
thus  also  that  of  the  BMW  Group.  Particularly  as  a 
premium manufacturer, the BMW Group aspires to lead 
the way in promoting sustainability and is therefore also 
taking responsibility with regard to this key topic. 

This also means facing up to the challenges of the 
future, but also making effective use of opportunities as 
they arise. With this in mind, the BMW Group focuses on 
the performance and diversity of its workforce, whereby 
the proportion of women in management positions at 
BMW Group is seen as a key performance indicator for 
the future.

Moreover, the BMW Group is rigorously going one 
step further by setting itself new and ambitious sustain-
ability targets for 2030. They are an inherent aspect of 
strategic management and include the upstream supply 
chain, the Group’s own manufacturing operations as well 
as the customers’ use phase.

indicators are: 

1.  CO₂ emissions per vehicle produced

2.  CO₂ emissions of the new vehicle fleet * 

3.   Proportion of electrified vehicles in total deliveries

In future, the key non-financial performance indica-
tors will be supplemented to include CO₂ emissions gen-
erated in the supply chain. The corresponding strategic 
focus is firmly established in every area of the company.

*  EU including Norway and Iceland.

Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

The new target framework represents a systematic 
continuation of the ten strategic sustainability goals 
already announced in 2012, which have been rigorously 
pursued in the period from 2012 to 2020. These sustain-
ability goals were divided into three main fields of action:

1.  Products and services

The increasing electrification of the BMW Group’s 
fleet  and  the  systematic  further  development  of 
combustion  engines  made  it  possible  to  remain 
within the fleet CO₂ limit set by the EU in the 2020 
reporting period, taking all regulatory requirements 
and regulations into account. 
 As a result, the 
Group also achieved the target it set itself in 2012 
of halving the carbon emissions generated by its 
European new vehicle fleet in the period from 1995 
to 2020. 

 Carbon Emissions and Pollutants 

2.  Production and value creation

Since 2020, the BMW Group has obtained all of its 
production-related, externally generated electricity 
from renewable sources, in line with the target set 
by the Group. 

 Renewable Energy

3.  Employees and society

Women accounted for 19.5 % of the BMW Group’s to-
tal workforce during the year under report (BMW AG: 
15.9 %) and therefore above the target range of 15 % 
to 17 % set for 2020. At 17.8 %, the proportion of 
women in management positions at BMW Group 
(BMW AG: 16.2 %) was also within the target range 
at the end of 2020. The high proportion of women 
in junior management programmes also forms the 
basis for a further increase in the number of women 
in management positions over time. 
 Employee Diversity

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

46

Strategic targets 2020

2020
TARGETS ACHIEVED

– 53 %
CO² EMISSIONS IN THE 
 EUROPEAN NEW VEHICLE 
FLEET IN THE PERIOD FROM 
1995 TO 2020

100 %
ELECTRICITY PURCHASED FOR 
THE BMW GROUP’S PLANTS 
WORLDWIDE SINCE 2020 FROM 
RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES

17.8 %
PROPORTION OF WOMEN 
IN  MANAGEMENT POSITIONS 
IN THE BMW GROUP

PRODUCTS AND  
SERVICES

PRODUCTION, PURCHASING 
AND SUPPLIER NETWORK

EMPLOYEES AND 
 SOCIETY

This is a simplified depiction. Detailed explanations of KPIs and its  corresponding 
assurance level are provided in the relevant chapters of the report.

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

47

CARBON TARGETS FOR THE VEHICLE’S USE PHASE

By  2030,  the  carbon  emissions  generated  by 
BMW Group vehicles are to be reduced by more than 
40 % per kilometre driven. The BMW Group has been 
working successfully for many years to reduce the level 
of carbon emissions of its new vehicle fleet worldwide. 
As well as complying with its legal obligations, the Group 
has always remained true to its voluntary commitments. 
The early deployment of Efficient Dynamics technologies 
since 2007 and the ongoing electrification of its vehicle 
fleet form the dual basis for continued compliance with 
statutory carbon emissions and fuel consumption limits 
going forward.

As a pioneer of electric mobility, the BMW Group is 
in the process of significantly expanding its range. By 
the end of 2021, it aims to have over one million ve-
hicles powered by either all-electric or plug-in hybrid 
drivetrains on the road. BMW Group customers will 
then be able to choose from a range of five fully electric 
series-produced models.

The BMW Group intends to have 25 electrified mod-
els on the road by 2023. The plan is based on flexible 
vehicle architectures and production systems that enable 
a model to be manufactured as an all-electric version, as 
a plug-in hybrid or powered by a conventional internal 
combustion engine. This approach gives the BMW Group 
the flexibility to take account of changes in market de-
mand as well as differences in regulatory requirements 
and infrastructure in the various markets in which it 
operates. The BMW Group forecasts that demand for 
its electrified vehicles is set to double by 2021 compared 
to 2019. According to the BMW Group’s forecasts, by 
2021 the sale of electrified vehicles is expected to double 
compared to 2019 figures. By 2025, the proportion of 
electrified cars in total Group deliveries is expected to 
rise to at least 25 %. However, Group decarbonisation 
targets are far more ambitious. By 2030, it aims to reduce 
carbon emissions per kilometre driven during a given 
vehicle’s use phase by more than 40 % compared to 2019 
(Scope 3 downstream). 
 Carbon Emissions and Pollutants The 
target is within the range defined by the SBTI’s calcu-
lations to limit global warming to between 1.5 and 1.75 
degrees Celsius.

CARBON EMISSIONS IN PRODUCTION AND AT BUSINESS 
LOCATIONS BY 80 % 

The BMW Group has a direct influence on the carbon 
emissions generated at its own plants and locations and 
has therefore been a leader in terms of resource efficiency 
in this field for many years. Its underlying aspiration 
is even more ambitious than the international pursuing 
efforts of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. 
 Despite having already reduced the level of carbon 
emissions  per  vehicle  produced  by  more  than  70 % 
since 2006, 
 the BMW Group intends to additionally 
reduce carbon emissions per vehicle produced, which 
are generated directly by its own combustion process-
es (Scope 1) and indirectly by external energy sources 
(Scope 2), by a further 80 % by 2030 (base year 2019). 
Accordingly, by 2030 carbon emissions are expected to 
have dropped by over 90 % compared with 2006 levels. 

 Resource Consumption and Resource Efficiency

Alongside the purchase of electricity, 100 % of which 
has been obtained from green, renewable sources * since 
2020, 
 Renewable Energy the BMW Group will continue to 
systematically invest in optimising its energy efficiency 
and also intends to exploit the opportunities offered by 
digitalisation in the process. Even today, the Group’s 
production processes are already highly efficient – for 
example, by reducing the volume of rejects in car body 
construction to a minimum and by planning the ongo-
ing maintenance of its machinery on a predictive basis. 
The BMW Group will also examine the potential for the 
broader deployment of renewable energy at its various 
locations worldwide. The use of green hydrogen to gen-
erate power can also play a key role. 

*  Electricity generated from in-house renewable power plants, direct supply contracts for green electricity 

and certified guarantees of origin.

BMW GroupReport 2020 
48

As a concrete example of the measures taken, the 
Group has already entered into contractual agreements 
with its cell manufacturers that only green electricity will 
be used to produce the fifth generation of battery cells, a 
move that should lead to a total saving of around ten mil-
lion tonnes of carbon dioxide over the next ten years.

Moreover, the BMW Group is currently in the process 
of creating the organisational conditions that enable it 
to reliably record and document the size of the carbon 
footprint generated via its supply chain. This, in turn, is 
the key prerequisite for taking subsequent measures to 
reduce and effectively manage it, fully in line with the 
BMW Group’s declared strategy of continuous improve-
ment. 

 Purchasing and Supplier Network

Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
 Disclosures (TCFD) 

In  its  reporting  procedures, the  BMW Group  also takes the  rec-
ommendations  of  the  Task  Force  on  Climate-related  Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) into account in order to report transparent-
ly  on  climate  risks  and  opportunities  for  operational  and  finan-
cial reporting purposes. Firstly, it reports on this topic in detail in 
its  BMW  Group  Report  and  secondly  in the  CDP  questionnaire, 
which has incorporated the TCFD recommendations since 2018. 
The  BMW  Group’s  2020  CDP  questionnaire  is  available  on the 
 TCFD-Index in the ap-
pendix provides a compact overview of the key statements con-
tained in the four TCFD core elements as well as their location in 
the BMW Group Report and the CDP questionnaire.

 BMW Group Website. The TCFD Index 

Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

CO2 IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN: TREND REVERSAL AND 
 SIGNIFICANT REDUCTION 

In view of the increasing number of electric vehicles 
on roads worldwide, far greater attention will also have 
to be paid to upstream value creation when it comes to 
reducing carbon emissions going forward – particularly 
in light of the energy-intensive production of high-volt-
age batteries. Due to the greater proportion of electrified 
vehicles, carbon emissions generated per vehicle in the 
BMW Group’s supply chain are set to rise by more than 
one-third by 2030 if no countermeasures are taken. At 
the same time, as the volume of carbon emissions gener-
ated during the use phase decreases, the total percentage 
of emissions caused by the supply chain and attributable 
to the Group will increase. This situation requires the 
BMW Group to set its own strategic targets.

The Group not only aims to halt the rise in the level 
of carbon generated by the supply chain that would be 
expected without taking countermeasures (Scope 3 up-
stream), it also intends to reduce emissions per vehicle 
by at least 20 % * by 2030 (base year 2019). In its efforts to 
achieve this aim, among other measures the BMW Group 
is establishing the carbon footprint of the supply chain 
as a decision-making criterion when awarding contracts. 
With this end in mind, the Group took the step of initiat-
ing a dialogue with its most important suppliers in terms 
of their carbon footprint during the period under report. 
The BMW Group is playing an exemplary role in working 
with well-documented and measurable carbon emission 
targets for its supply chain.

*  Value rounded for simplification purposes. The target percentage validated in conjunction with SBTI is 22 %.

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

49

RESPONSIBLE USE OF RESOURCES – ENTERING THE 
CIRCULAR ECONOMY

Not only decarbonisation but also the responsible 
use of resources plays a key part in the BMW Group’s 
strategy. In practical terms, this means primarily avoiding 
waste or reducing it to an absolute minimum. However, 
as resources are scarce and many raw materials are only 
available in limited quantities, the reuse of materials 
and raw materials in the form of secondary materials is 
becoming increasingly key for manufacturing processes 
going forward.

For example, the growing popularity of electric mo-
bility worldwide cannot be covered by primary materials 
alone in the long term. Furthermore, there is a strong 
synergy between the conservation of primary natural 
resources  and  carbon  dioxide  emissions.  Therefore, 
from a sustainability perspective, the underlying flows 
of resources require some rethinking. The BMW Group 
aims to obtain high-quality secondary materials through 
promoting a greater degree of transparency in the re-
cycling chain and simultaneously tracing the reuse of 
(secondary) raw materials within the cycle. 

The Group has the clear objective of promoting the cir-
cular economy principle by using raw materials even more 
efficiently in order to protect nature’s finite resources.

Even today, vehicles are already required to be 95 % 
recyclable. However, the proportion of secondary raw 
materials used to manufacture new vehicles is still com-
paratively low. In view of this key point, the BMW Group 
plans  to  considerably  increase  this  proportion  in  its 
vehicles by 2030 – and is already exploring some very 
far-reaching scenarios. 
 The use of secondary materials 
again significantly reduces carbon emissions in compari-
son to primary materials – by as much as 80 % in the case 
of aluminium, for example. Keeping the extraction of raw 
materials to a minimum is an ideal way of protecting ex-
isting resources. In the case of critical raw materials, for 
example, any political conflicts in the producing coun-
tries could also give rise to risks for the BMW Group’s 
procurement activities, which can be mitigated through 
the use of secondary products.

Particularly  in  view  of  the  high-voltage  batteries 
needed to power electrified vehicles, which can entail 
the use of critical raw materials, the circular economy 
has a decisive role to play. In close collaboration with the 
German recycling specialist Duesenfeld, the BMW Group 
has developed a process that can achieve a recycling rate 
of up to 96 % – including the graphite and electrolytes 
these devices contain. The BMW Group already offers all 
customers who own a vehicle equipped with a high-volt-
age battery to take the devices back free of charge. The 
offer also applies to regions where it is not legally obliged 
to do so.

In order to monitor and verify flows of goods on a 
global basis, the BMW Group is also using digital tools 
in pilot processes, including blockchain technology. The 
PartChain project, for example, enables the Group to 
collect supply chain data using a method that is both 
verifiable and tamper-proof at all times. In the long term, 
this technology could enable critical raw materials in par-
ticular to be fully traceable from the mine to the smelter.

 Resource Consumption and Resource Efficiency 

SECURING LONG-TERM SUCCESS

In order to create value for the BMW Group, the 
environment and society in general, sustainability is 
integrated throughout the entire value chain and all 
its underlying processes. And the evidence of how this 
Group strategy is being implemented underlines its tan-
gible impact. It sets out clear guidelines and points the 
way forward in terms of how the BMW Group intends to 
shape the individual premium mobility of tomorrow. The 
BMW Group will move forward in its own independent 
way and continue the long-term process of developing 
on a sustainable and profitable basis. 

The BMW Group’s strategic goals up to the years 2025 
and 2030 respectively are summarised in the presenta-
tion below: 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

50

> 10 %
EBT MARGIN 
GROUP

 8 -10 %

EBIT MARGIN 
 AUTOMOTIVE  SEGMENT

≥ 40 %
RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED 
AUTOMOTIVE SEGMENT

Strategic targets

2025

 ≥ 25 %

MINIMUM PROPORTION OF ELEC-
TRIFIED  AUTOMOBILES TO TOTAL 
 DELIVERIES

 22 %

PROPORTION OF WOMEN 
IN  MANAGEMENT POSITIONS 
IN THE BMW GROUP

2030

 80 %

REDUCTION OF CO² EMISSIONS
PER VEHICLE IN PRODUCTION 
(BASE YEAR 2019)

 > 40 %

REDUCTION OF CO² EMISSIONS  
IN VEHICLE USE PHASE  
PER KILOMETRE DRIVEN 
(BASE YEAR 2019)

 ≥ 20 %

REDUCTION OF CO² EMISSIONS  
IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN  
(BASE YEAR 2019)

This is a simplified depiction. Detailed explanations of KPIs and its  corresponding  
assurance level are provided in the relevant chapters of the report. 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

Managing sustainability 

The BMW Group’s long-term strategic course is determined by 
the full Board of Management, which is therefore also responsi-
ble  for  implementing the  Group’s  sustainability  goals.  In  2019, 
the  separate  format  of  the  Board  of  Management’s  Sustaina-
bility  Board  was  fully  incorporated  into the  regular  meetings  of 
the  Board  of  Management,  enabling  sustainability  issues to  be 
even  more  systematically  integrated  within  the  BMW  Group’s 
decision-making processes. Since then, sustainability has been 
treated like every other topic and discussed at Board of Manage-
ment meetings as the need arises. Moreover, all requests for de-
cisions referred to the Board of Management are required to be 
assessed beforehand in terms of their sustainability. A Strategy 
and  Structure Circle, comprising the top management of the vari-
ous company divisions, prepares the drafts of decisions to be tak-
en for the Board of Management after also taking sustainability 
issues into account.

The BMW Group’s corporate governance principles are set out in 
 Corporate Governance Statement. 
detail in its 
 GRI 102-18, 
102-19, 102-20, 102-26, 102-27, 102-31, 102-33

The Group’s targets for sustainability are applied at business unit 
level and overall area of responsibility level. As a consequence, 
the individual targets set for managers include sustainability as-
pects  and  criteria  that  have  an  impact  on  performance-based 
compensation. 

 GRI 102-19, 102-28

The Supervisory Board decides on the amounts awarded to mem-
bers of the Board of Management 
 Remuneration Report, basing 
its decisions on the sustainable development of the BMW Group 
as a whole. Bonuses are partially based on personal performance 
and assessed primarily according to qualitative criteria. These in-
clude  ecological  innovations  (e. g.  carbon  emission  reductions), 
leadership  accomplishments  and the  ability to  manage  change 
processes.  Additional  criteria  include  enhancing the  company’s 
attractiveness as an employer, progress in implementing the di-
versity concept and activities that encourage corporate citizen-
ship within the BMW Group. 

 GRI 102-27, 102-28, 102-35

51

MANAGEMENT SYSTEM

The BMW Group’s business management system fol-
lows a value-based approach that focuses on profitability, 
consistent growth, value enhancement for capital pro-
viders, sustainability, climate protection and job security. 
Capital is considered to be employed profitably when the 
amount of profit generated sustainably exceeds the cost 
of equity and debt capital. This strategy also secures the 
desired degree of corporate autonomy in the long term. 

The BMW Group’s internal management system is 
based  on  a  multilayered  structure.  Operating  perfor-
mance is managed primarily at segment level. In order 
to manage long-term corporate performance and assess 
strategic issues, additional key performance figures are 
taken into account within the management system at 
Group level. In this context, the value added serves as 
one of several indicators for the contribution made to 
enterprise value during the financial year. This approach 
is made operational at both Group and segment level 
through key financial and non-financial performance 
indicators (value drivers). The link between value added 
and the relevant value drivers is presented in a simplified 
form below.

BMW GROUP – VALUE DRIVERS

Value added

–

Return on capital 
(RoCE or RoE)

×

Return on sales

Capital turnover

Cost of capital

÷

÷

×

Profit

–

Expenses

Revenues

Capital employed

Average weighted 
cost of capital rate

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

Due to the very high level of aggregation, it is im-
practical to manage the business on the basis of value 
added. This key indicator is, however, used for reporting 
purposes. In addition, relevant value drivers having a sig-
nificant impact on business performance and therefore 
on enterprise value are defined for each controlling level. 
The financial and non-financial value drivers are reflected 
in the key performance indicators used to manage the 
business. In the case of project-related decisions, the 
target system follows a project-oriented management 
logic that is based on net present values and profitability 
performance indicators, thereby providing a fundamental 
basis for decision-making. 

MANAGEMENT OF OPERATING PERFORMANCE 
 AT  SEGMENT LEVEL

Operating performance at segment level is managed 
at an aggregated level on the basis of returns on cap-
ital. Depending on the business model, the segments 
are measured on the basis of return on total capital or 
return on equity. Specifically, return on capital employed 
(RoCE)  is  used  for  the  Automotive  and  Motorcycles 
segments and return on equity (RoE) for the Financial 
Services segment. These indicators combine a wide range 
of relevant economic information, such as profitability 
(return on sales) and capital efficiency (capital turnover) 
to measure segment performance and the development 
of enterprise value.

52

AUTOMOTIVE SEGMENT

The most comprehensive key performance indicator 
used for the Automotive segment is RoCE. This indica-
tor provides information on the profitability of capital 
employed and the operational business. Value driver 
analyses can be used to interpret the causes of a change 
in RoCE and derive suitable measures to influence its 
development. RoCE is measured on the basis of segment 

RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED

profit  before  financial  result  and  the  average  capital 
employed in the segment. The strategic target for the 
Automotive segment’s RoCE is 40 %.

RoCE Automotive

=

Profit before 
financial result

Average  
capital employed

Profit before financial result in € million

Average capital employed in € million

Return on capital employed in %

Automotive

2,162

4,499

17,026

15,513

2020

2019

2020

2019

2020

12.7

2019

29.0

Capital employed corresponds to the sum of all cur-
rent and non-current operational assets, less liabilities 
that generally do not incur interest (e. g. trade payables 
and other provisions).

Due to its key importance for the Group as a whole, 
the Automotive segment is managed on the basis of 
 additional  key  performance  indicators  that  have  a 
significant  impact  on  RoCE  and  hence  on  segment 
performance. These value drivers are the number of 
vehicle   deliveries  and  the  operating  return  on  sales 
(EBIT margin: segment profit before financial result as a 
percentage of segment revenues) as the key performance 
indicator for segment profitability.

Furthermore, the segment manages its compliance 
with fleet CO₂ targets in regulated markets. This also 
includes the proportion of total deliveries accounted for 
by electrified vehicles. Since compliance with regulatory 
requirements has a significant impact on the company’s 
success, business decisions relating to vehicle projects 
also  take  fleet  CO₂  requirements  into  consideration. 
In order to take account of the increasing relevance of 
carbon emissions over the life cycle of a vehicle, in 2020 
a control logic was agreed upon to measure this factor 
during the manufacturing phase (supplier network, logis-
tics, production). 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
53

Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

MOTORCYCLES SEGMENT

As with the Automotive segment, the Motorcycles 
segment is managed on the basis of RoCE. Capital em-
ployed is determined on the same basis as in the Auto-
motive segment. The strategic RoCE target for the Motor-
cycles segment is 40 % as in the Automotive segment.

RoCE Motorcycles

=

Profit before  
financial result 

Average  
capital employed

RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED

Motorcycles

Profit before financial result in € million

Average capital employed in € million

Return on capital employed in %

2020

103

2019

194

2020

687

2019

660

2020

15.0

2019

29.4

The main value drivers include the number of de-
liveries and the operating return on sales (EBIT margin: 
segment profit before financial result as a percentage of 
segment revenues) as the key performance indicator for 
segment profitability.

BMW GroupReport 2020 
54

Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

FINANCIAL SERVICES SEGMENT

As commonly practised in the banking sector, the 
Financial Services segment is managed on the basis of 
return on equity (RoE). RoE is defined as segment profit 
before  tax,  divided  by  the  average  amount  of  equity 
capital in the Financial Services segment. The target is a 
return on equity of at least 14 %.

RoE  
Financial Services

=

Profit before tax

Average equity capital

RETURN ON EQUITY

Financial Services

1,725

2,272

15,343

15,146

2020

2019

2020

2019

2020

11.2

2019

15.0

Profit before tax in € million

Average equity capital in € million

Return on equity in %

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT AT GROUP LEVEL

Strategic  management  and  the  quantification  of 
financial  implications  based  on  long-term  corporate 
planning are performed primarily at Group level. Key 
performance indicators in this context include Group 
profit before tax and the size of the workforce at the year 
end. Group profit before taxes provides a comprehensive 
measure of the Group’s overall corporate performance 
after consolidation effects and a transparent basis for 
comparing performance over time. 

The  information  provided  by  these  non-financial 
performance indicators is complemented by the two 
financial key performance indicators of pre-tax return 
on sales and value added. Value added, as a highly ag-
gregated performance indicator, also provides an insight 
into capital efficiency and the (opportunity) cost of cap-
ital required to generate Group profit. A positive added 
value means that a return on investment above the cost 
of capital has been achieved.

BMW GroupReport 2020 
 
Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

55

VALUE ADDED GROUP

in € million

BMW Group

Value added Group

Earnings amount

Cost of capital (equity + debt capital)

Value added Group

2020

2019

2020

2019

2020

2019

5,464

7,369

8,061

7,812

– 2,597

– 443

=

= 

earnings amount – 
cost of capital

earnings amount – 
(cost of capital rate × capital 
employed)

In order to determine the internal rate of return, 
risk-adjusted cost of capital rates are based on the average 
of actual rates in recent years. In light of the long-term 
nature of product and investment decisions, the follow-
ing internal rates of return are used in conjunction with 
segment management:

Capital  employed  comprises  the  average  amount 
of Group equity and pension pro visions as well as the 
financial liabilities of the Automotive and Motorcycles 
segments employed at the end of the last five quarters in 
each case. The earnings amount corresponds to Group 
profit before tax, adjusted for interest expense incurred 
in conjunction with the pension provision and the fi-
nancial liabilities of the Automotive and Motorcycles 
segments (profit before interest expense and taxes). The 
cost of capital is the minimum rate of return expected 
by capital providers in return for the capital employed. 
Since capital employed comprises an equity capital (e. g. 
share capital) and a debt capital element (e. g. bonds), 
the overall cost of capital rate is determined on the basis 
of the weighted average rates for equity and debt capital, 
measured using standard market procedures. The pre-tax 
average weighted cost of capital for the BMW Group in 
2020 was 12 %, unchanged from the previous year.

in %

Automobile

Motorcycles

Financial Services

2020

2019

12.0

12.0

13.4

12.0

12.0

13.4

VALUE-BASED MANAGEMENT FOR PROJECT  DECISIONS

Operational business in the Automotive and Motor-
cycles segments is largely shaped by the life-cycle-de-
pendent character of investment projects, which have 
a substantial influence on future business performance. 
Project-related decisions are therefore a crucial element 
of financial management in the BMW Group. 

Project decisions are based on calculations derived 
from the expected cash flows of each individual project. 
Calculations are made for the full term of a project, in-
corporating future years in which the project is expected 
to generate cash flows. Project decisions are taken on the 
basis of net present value and the internal rate of return 
calculated for the project. 

The net present value indicates the extent to which 
the project will be able to generate future net cash in-
flows over and above the cost of capital. A project with 
a positive net present value enhances future value added 
and therefore results in an increase in enterprise value. 
The internal rate of return of the project shows the aver-
age return on the capital employed in the project. In this 
respect, there are conceptual links between the internal 
rate of return and the multi-year average RoCE.

For all project decisions, the project criteria and long-
term periodic results impact are measured and incorpo-
rated in the long-term Group planning. This approach 
enables an analysis of the impact of project decisions on 
periodic earnings and rates of return for each year during 
the term of the project. The overall result is a cohesive 
management model.

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

HOW THE BMW GROUP 
CREATES VALUE 

Within the BMW Group, value creation is a com-
prehensive process involving a broad range of positive 
factors, some of which interact in complex ways. These 
factors may be of a financial or a non-financial nature 
and relate to both tangible and intangible values that are 
geared towards creating additional value using a mini-
mum of resources. These input factors form the basis that 
drives the BMW Group’s overall performance.

According  to  the  input-output  model  of  the  IIRC 
framework, the factors on both the input and the output 
side are divided into six different types of capital, which 
can be distinguished as follows:

1.  Financial capital

2.  Human capital

3.  Intellectual capital

4.  Relationship capital

5.  Produced capital

6.  Natural capital

56

The  BMW  Group’s  financial  capital  is  defined  in 
terms of equity capital and total assets, the latter cor-
responding to the balance sheet total. An appropriately 
high equity ratio (i. e. equity as a percentage of total 
assets) makes a significant contribution to safeguarding 
the corporate independence of the BMW Group and 
forms a solid basis for high earnings and therefore stable 
dividends for the shareholders.

The BMW Group’s solid economic base is inextricably 
linked with its human and intellectual capital. These 
two precious assets constitute the greatest factor in the 
enduring success of the Group as a whole and play a 
key role in tackling the challenges of the future. They 
combine the knowledge, skills, abilities, strengths and 
talents of the BMW Group’s workforce and are among 
the most important value factors for the Group.

In its international R&D network, the BMW Group 
offers its innovation-minded employees excellent condi-
tions that enable them to create the solutions that will 
shape tomorrow’s world. The high degree of motivation 
to  innovate  and  the  willingness  to  perform,  both  of 
which are firmly anchored throughout the entire work-
force, are equally expressed in the lively participation 
in  Group-wide  ideas  management  as  well  as  in  the 
outstanding level of employee satisfaction. A key pillar 
of the BMW Group’s personnel development strategy is 
to develop this success factor in a targeted manner. In 
addition to its many other levers, the Group attaches 
great importance to the personal advancement of each 
individual, which also includes providing opportunities 
for further training.

For the BMW Group, innovation means rigorously 
taking the next step. In this context, it also collaborates 
closely with its partners in the supplier network. The 

stable relationships, which have developed over a long 
period of time in many cases, have created a capital of 
inestimable value, a fact amply demonstrated not least 
in the 2020 pandemic year. Even under the challeng-
ing  conditions  of  the  global  lockdown  in  2020,  the 
BMW Group’s supply chains remained firm; a feat only 
possible when the partners share common standards and 
values and can truly depend on one another. 
 Purchasing 
and Supplier Network

The backbone of the BMW Group’s produced capital 
is formed by the 31 plants in its global production net-
work, across which it manufactured a total of 2.26 million 
premium vehicles during the 2020 reporting period. Thir-
teen of these plants (over 40 %) are already producing 
electrified vehicles alongside conventional models.

Natural  capital  describes  all  the  renewable  and 
non-renewable resources deployed in the manufactur-
ing process. The BMW Group is an efficiency-oriented 
company, and for that reason both the enterprise as 
a whole and its individual employees have always de-
ployed natural resources sparingly as a matter of course. 
The consistently positive development of these capital 
indicators  in  recent  years  underscores  this  common 
corporate identity, a fact additionally confirmed by the 
assessments of independent rating agencies 
 BMW Stock 
and Capital  Markets in 2020.

All in all, these various aspects form the basis of the 
BMW Group’s enduring success. Even minor changes in 
individual factors can directly influence the overall result. 
This holistic BMW Group approach is intended to ensure 
that all available resources are used in a responsible man-
ner. 

 Value Added Statement

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

Financial capital
61,520

216,658

Total assets 
(€ million)

Equity capital 
(€ million)

120,726 

Human capital
279

Workforce at  
end of year

Training and education 
expenditure (€ million)

Intellectual capital
6,279

1,561 

R&D expenditure 
(€ million)

Employee ideas 
 implemented in 
 conjunction with 
CRE8 Ideas 
 Management

Relationship capital
55.5 
79 

Proportion of 
 production-relevant 
 purchasing volume within 
the CDP supply chain 
programme (in %) 

Purchase volume  
(€ million) 

Produced capital
thereof 13

31

Number of  
plants 

plants  
producing  
electrified  
vehicles

Natural capital
100

2.12

Energy consumption 
per produced vehicle 
(in MWh)

Proportion of 
 electricity from 
 renewable energy 
sources (in %)

How the BMW Group creates value

Output

Input

This diagram shows an illustrative overview of key performance indicators (KPIs) disclosed 
in the  report. Detailed explanations of KPIs and its corresponding assurance level are provided  
in the relevant chapters of the report.

Further information is available at: 

 report.bmwgroup.com

57

Financial capital
1,253

4,830

Dividend total 
( proposal to the 
 Annual General 
 Meeting) (€million)

Profit before  
financial result (EBIT) 
(€ million)

Human capital
12,244

82

Wages/salaries/ 
social insurance 
contributions 
(€ million)

Employee  
satisfaction  
(in %)

Intellectual capital
6.3
18.2 

First-year benefits 
from implemented 
employee ideas 
(CRE8) (€ million)

R&D ratio  
(in %)

Relationship capital
35 
60 

Proportion of 
 value creation 
from  suppliers 
(in %)

Proportion of 
 suppliers in the 
 CDP Supply Chain 
 programme with 
an assessment of 
at least B (in %)

Produced capital
2.33

192,662 

Deliveries to 
 customers 
(in  million units)

Deliveries of 
 electrified vehicles

Natural capital
− 56.7

− 53 

Improvement 
in  resource 
 consumption and 
emissions from 
 vehicle production 
(in %, average)

Development 
 CO2 emissions EU new 
car fleet since 1995 
(in %)

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

COMPLIANCE AND  
HUMAN RIGHTS

Responsible and lawful conduct is fundamental to the 
success of the BMW Group. Compliance is an integral 
part of our corporate culture and the reason why share-
holders, customers, business partners and the general 
public place their trust in us. The Board of Management 
and the employees of the BMW Group are obliged to act 
responsibly and in compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations. The BMW Group also expects its business 
partners  to  conduct  themselves  in  the  same  manner 
throughout the entire value chain. As an active corpo-
rate member of the German Institute for Compliance 
(DICO), the BMW Group provides practical support for 
compliance management in Germany and contributes to 
its further development.

COMPLIANCE AS A CORPORATE FUNCTION

The BMW Group Compliance Management System is 
designed to ensure that the BMW Group, its representa-
tive bodies, its managers and staff act in a lawful manner 
at all company locations. Particular emphasis is placed on 
measures to ensure compliance with antitrust legislation 
and avoid the risk of corruption or money laundering, as 
well as promoting respect for human rights. Activities 
to avoid non-compliance with the law are managed and 
monitored by the BMW Group Compliance Committee. 

58

These activities include legal monitoring, internal compli-
ance regulations, communications and training activities, 
complaint and case management, compliance reporting 
and compliance controls, as well as following through 
with sanctions in cases of non-compliance.

REGULAR COMPLIANCE REPORTING TO BOARD OF 
MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY BOARD

The BMW Group Compliance Committee reviews the 
effectiveness and efficiency of the Compliance Manage-
ment System on an ongoing basis. It reports regularly 
and on a case-by-case basis to the Board of Management 
and the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board on all 
compliance-related issues, including the progress made 
in refining the BMW Group Compliance Management 
System,  details  of  investigations  performed,  known 
infringements of the law, sanctions imposed and correc-
tive / preventative measures implemented. This also en-
sures the Board of Management and Supervisory Board 
are immediately notified of any cases of particular sig-
nificance. On the basis of this information, the Board of 
Management keeps track of and analyses developments 
and trends in the field of compliance and initiates the 
measures needed to improve the Compliance Manage-
ment System. The following were among the measures 
implemented in 2020:

 — Board of Management decision of 15 December 2020 
establishing a BMW Group Chief Compliance Officer, 
effective 1 January 2021, to further strengthen com-
pliance management at the BMW Group.

 — Creation of six new compliance functions within 
the Board divisions of BMW AG, with a multi-day 
onboarding  programme  for  the  new  Compliance 
Officers.

 — Stepping up antitrust compliance measures. 

 — A company-wide tone-from-the-top communications 
initiative highlighting the compliance management 
culture at the BMW Group. 

 GRI 102-33

BMW GROUP COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM

Supervisory Board BMW AG

Board of Management BMW AG

BMW Group Compliance Committee

 BMW Group Compliance Committee  
Office

BMW Group Compliance 
Network

Annual Report

Annual Report

Annual   
Compliance  
Reporting Run

Compliance Instruments 
of the BMW Group

Compliance Controls

Compliance  
Reporting

Compliance Case 
Management

Compliance Processes 
and IT Systems

Compliance Academy  
and Culture

Compliance Strategy

Legal Compliance 
 Monitoring and Trends

Compliance Risks and 
Preventive Excellence

Compliance Codes and 
 Internal  Regulations

Compliance Communications

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

COMPANY-WIDE COMPLIANCE NETWORK

The decisions taken by the BMW Group Compliance 
Committee  are  drafted  in  concept  and  implemented 
operationally by the BMW Group Compliance Commit-
tee Office. The BMW Group Compliance Committee 
Office has more than 20 employees and forms part of 
the organisation that reports to the Chairman of the 
Board of Management. For operational implementation 
of compliance topics, it is supported by a Group-wide 
compliance network of around 240 BMW Group Com-
pliance Responsibles (heads of local units) and over 80 
local Compliance Officers (heads of local compliance 

Compliance management in the Financial 
Services segment

The financial services business entails specific risks arising from 
the nature of its products and processes. The focus here is on an-
ti-money-laundering measures, compliance with financial sanc-
tions, information privacy and data protection, fraud prevention, 
and  legislative  and  regulatory  monitoring,  as  well  as  consum-
er protection. To address the risks in these areas, a “compliance 
coordination” function was created within the Financial Services 
segment as a delegated function of the BMW Group Compliance 
Committee Office. Based on an annual trend analysis, it identifies 
new or modified regulatory requirements in the financial services 
sector and defines the necessary measures. Implementation by 
BMW Group financial services companies worldwide is tracked on 
a quarterly basis. Compliance is incorporated into the target man-
agement process for the Financial Services segment. Integration 
of specific targets into strategic management underlines the im-
portance of this topic and helps monitor implementation. A man-
agement system is also used to identify risks of non-compliance 
with internal and external regulations in the early stages.

functions). The specific compliance activities required for 
financial services business are coordinated by a separate 
compliance department within the Financial Services 
segment.  The  BMW  Group  compliance  organisation 
remained fully operational in 2020, despite the unique 
demands of the coronavirus situation.

COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AIMED AT ENSUR-
ING LAWFUL CONDUCT THROUGHOUT THE GROUP 

The various elements of the BMW Group Compli-
ance Management System are shown in the diagram on 
the previous page 
 BMW Group Compliance Management System 
and are applicable to all BMW Group organisational 
units worldwide. The BMW Group Legal Compliance 
Code and BMW Group Code on Human Rights, which 
form the core of the Group’s Compliance Management 
System, are supplemented by an internal set of rules. 
The BMW Group Policy “Compliance” sets out binding 
strategic  requirements  for  BMW  Group  compliance 
management, its premises and basic principles, as well 
as  for  implementation  in  the  business  departments. 
The BMW Group Policy “Antitrust Compliance”, which 
establishes binding rules of conduct for all employees 
across the BMW Group to prevent unlawful restriction 
of competition, was supplemented by several additional 
manuals in 2020 and deserves particular mention. The 
rules set out in the BMW Group Policy “Corruption Pre-
vention” and the BMW Group Instruction “Corporate 
Hospitality and Gifts” deal with lawful handling of gifts 
and benefits and define appropriate assessment criteria 
and  approval  procedures.  The  BMW  Group  Instruc-
tion “Anti-money-Laundering” defines company-wide 

59

standards for anti-money-laundering for trade in goods 
and the financial services sector.

Compliance measures are determined and prioritised 
on the basis of a regular group-wide compliance risk 
assessment that relies on data-based risk indicators and 
transaction validation, among other methods.

Various  internal  media  and  communications  ma-
terials are used to raise awareness among staff across 
all compliance issues, including newsletters, employee 
newspapers  and  the  compliance  homepage  in  the 
BMW  Group  intranet,  where  employees  can  find  all 
compliance-related information and training materials. 
A compliance tone-from-the-top initiative called “Walk-
the-Talk” was organised for the first time in 2020 to boost 
employee awareness of the importance of creating a cul-
ture of transparency and trust. Senior managers gave 
keynote speeches on a wide range of compliance issues 
at forums and employee meetings. 

The training opportunities offered by the BMW Group 
Compliance Academy are refined on an ongoing basis for 
specific target groups. As well as imparting knowledge, 
online and classroom training options with company-spe-
cific case studies play an important role in reinforcing 
compliance in the corporate culture. The online training 
modules must be repeated by the required target groups 
every two years and include a final test. Successful com-
pletion of the test is confirmed by a certificate. These 
courses are also offered on an optional basis to all other 
employees. 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

60

More than 42,800 managers and staff worldwide have 
so far received training in the basic principles of com-
pliance, including the content of the Legal Compliance 
Code and the topic of corruption prevention, and hold 
a valid training certificate. Successful completion of the 
training programme is mandatory for all BMW Group 
managers. The company makes sure that newly recruited 
managers and promoted staff receive compliance train-
ing. Online training in antitrust compliance is mandatory 
for managers and staff exposed to the associated risks as 
a result of their functions or on specific occasions. A total 
of more than 38,300 managers and employees worldwide 
have so far completed antitrust compliance training and 
currently hold a valid certificate. Classroom and virtual 
training, as well as multi-day coaching sessions, are also 
held in local markets for all key compliance topics. One 
main emphasis here is on department-specific antitrust 
training – an area that was significantly expanded in 
2020. 

 GRI 205-2

Any  member  of  staff  with  questions  or  concerns 
relating  to  compliance  is  expected  to  discuss  these 
matters with their managers and with the relevant de-
partments within the BMW Group: in particular, with 
the BMW Group Compliance Committee Office, Legal 
Affairs and Corporate Audit. The BMW Group Compli-
ance Contact also serves as a further point of contact 
and provides non-employees with a system for reporting 
concerns relating to compliance. Communication with 
the BMW Group Compliance Contact may remain anon-
ymous, if preferred. BMW Group employees worldwide 
also have the opportunity to submit information about 
possible breaches of the law within the company anon-
ymously and confidentially in several languages via the 
BMW Group SpeakUP Line. The BMW Group assures 
those providing information that no attempt will be made 
to determine their identity should they choose to remain 

anonymous.  Unauthorised  use  is  naturally  excluded 
from this. All compliance-related queries and concerns 
are documented and followed up by the BMW Group 
Compliance Committee Office using an electronic Case 
Management  System.  If  necessary,  Corporate  Audit, 
Corporate Security, the legal departments or the Works 
Council may be called upon to assist in the process and 
address any issues.

Various IT systems support BMW Group employees 
with the assessment, approval and documentation of 
compliance-relevant matters. For example, all exchange 
activities with competitors must be documented and 
approved in a special compliance IT system. The same 
applies to verifying legal admissibility and documenting 
benefits, especially in connection with corporate hospi-
tality. The BMW Group also uses an IT-based Business 
Relations Compliance programme to ensure the reliabil-
ity of its business relations. Relevant business partners 
are  checked  and  evaluated  for  potential  compliance 
risks. Appropriate measures are implemented to manage 
compliance risks based on the results of the evaluation. 
A further IT system is used to verify customer integrity 
as required under anti-money-laundering regulations. IT 
solutions for automated reporting of compliance training 
activities and documentation of all compliance activities 
conducted by the business units were also under devel-
opment during the reporting year.

Through the Group-wide reporting system, compli-
ance responsibles across all organisational units of the 
BMW Group report, on both an ongoing and adhoc basis, 
on the compliance status of their respective units, on any 
identified legal risks and incidences of non-compliance, 
as well as on sanctions and corrective / preventative meas-
ures implemented.

Compliance with and implementation of compliance 
rules and processes are audited regularly by Corporate 
Audit and subjected to control checks by the BMW Group 
Compliance Committee Office. Corporate Audit carries 
out on-site audits as part of its regular activities. The 
BMW Group Compliance Committee also engages Cor-
porate Audit to perform compliance-specific checks and, 
if necessary, brings in Corporate Security to investigate 
suspected cases. Two BMW Group Compliance Spot 
Checks, sample tests specifically designed to identify 
potential corruption risks, and an antitrust compliance 
validation (to identify and audit possible antitrust risks) 
were carried out in addition in 2020. The organisational 
units for audit are selected on the basis of a Group-wide 
compliance risk assessment. 

 GRI 205-1

In an antitrust investigation, the EU Commission 
alleges that five German car manufacturers colluded with 
the aim of restricting competition for innovation with 
regard to certain exhaust treatment systems installed in 
diesel and petrol-driven passenger vehicles. The current 
investigation is solely concerned with possible infringe-
ments of competition law. For further details, please see 
 Legal Risks within the Report on risks 
the section on 
 note 10 to the Group Financial 
and opportunities and 
Statements.

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

61

MANAGERS HAVE UNIQUE RESPONSIBILITY AS 
 COMPLIANCE ROLE MODELS

COOPERATION BETWEEN COMPLIANCE AND EMPLOYEE 
REPRESENTATIVES

Managers, in particular, bear a high degree of re-
sponsibility and must set a good example with regard 
to preventing infringements. Managers throughout the 
BMW Group acknowledge this principle by signing a 
written declaration, in which they also undertake to 
make staff working for them aware of legal risks. Manag-
ers must, at regular intervals and on their own initiative, 
verify compliance with the law. It is important to signal to 
employees that they take compliance risks seriously and 
that disclosing relevant information is extremely valuable. 
Managers should remain open to discussion and consider 
differing opinions. Any indication of non-compliance 
with the law must be rigorously investigated.

SANCTIONS MANAGEMENT

It is essential for compliance at the BMW Group that 
employees are aware of and comply with applicable legal 
regulations. The BMW Group does not tolerate violations 
of the law. Culpable violations of the law result in em-
ployment-contract sanctions and may involve personal 
liability consequences for the employee involved.

Compliance is also an important factor in safeguard-
ing the future of the BMW Group workforce. With this 
in mind, the Board of Management and the national 
and international employee representative bodies of the 
BMW Group have agreed on a binding set of joint prin-
ciples for lawful conduct. Employee representatives are 
regularly involved in the process of refining compliance 
management within the BMW Group.

WORLDWIDE IMPLEMENTATION OF LABOUR 
 STANDARDS AND RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS

 BMW Group models for ensuring compliance with 
environmental and social standards throughout its value 
chain  are  based  on  various  internationally  recognised 
guidelines. This especially applies to the 
 Guidelines for Multi-
national Companies issued by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation 
and Development (OECD), the 
Human Rights, the content of the 
able Development and the 
 United Nations Environment Programme’s 
(UNEP) Declaration on Cleaner Production. The BMW Group con-
centrates on topics and action areas where it can exert its 
influence as a commercial enterprise. 
 GRI 102-12, 102-16

 UN Guiding Principles on Business and 

 ICC Business Charter for Sustain-

With the signing of the UN Global Compact by the 
Board of Management of BMW AG in 2001 and the “Joint 
Declaration on Human Rights and Working Conditions 
in the BMW Group”, which was adopted in 2005 and up-
dated in 2010, the BMW Group has committed to abide 
by internationally recognised human rights and, specif-
ically, the ILO core labour standards. The BMW Group 
Code on Human Rights and Working Conditions, which 
was published in 2018 to provide further clarification, 
was ratified by the Board of Management and employee 
representatives. This affirms the BMW Group’s com-
mitment to human rights and outlines how it promotes 
respect for human rights and, specifically, how it imple-
ments the ILO Core Labour Standards in its business 
operations worldwide. The Code was also part of the 
compliance communications initiative “Walk-the-Talk”. 
The BMW Group conducts specific training on the sub-
ject of human rights: for instance, training Purchasing 
staff to be aware of human rights issues. 

 GRI 412-2

In its annual compliance reporting, all organisational 
units of the BMW Group are also asked for a local risk 
assessment of potential for human rights abuses. Their 
responses form the basis for developing further measures 
for the department to minimise the risks. 

 GRI 412-1 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

 Specific human rights risks arise in the supply 
chain due to the collaborative, cross-border and conti-
nent-spanning nature of value creation processes in the 
automotive industry. For this reason, the BMW Group 
has integrated respect for human rights into its 
 Supplier 
Sustainability Policy and follows an appropriate risk manage-
ment process. In addition to the company’s international 
purchasing terms and conditions, BMW Group dealer 
and importer contracts also contain a clause on com-
pliance and human rights. Human rights obligations 
are also considered in choosing sites and in important 
investment decisions. 
 GRI 412-3

In order to meet increasing requirements in the area 
of  human  rights,  the  BMW  Group  discusses  various 
legislative  proposals  at  German  and  European  level 
through associations and initiatives and participates in 
the Automotive Industry Dialogue as part of the Ger-
man government’s National Action Plan on Business 
and Human Rights. The German Federal Ministry of 
Labour and Social Affairs featured a practical example 
from the BMW Group on its 
 CSR website. As part of its 
leadership of the 
 CSR / Human Rights Working Group of the 
German Institute for Compliance (DICO), various as-
pects of human rights management in companies were 
discussed among members and presented at the 
 DICO 
Forum in October 2020. 

INNOVATION AND CUSTOMER 
ORIENTATION

FOCUS ON DRIVETRAIN TECHNOLOGIES

62

A constant striving for innovation, for something new 
and better, is a concept deeply anchored in the corpo-
rate culture of the BMW Group – in the thinking of its 
employees, in its processes and also in the identity of its 
brands. The benchmark and the goal of the BMW Group’s 
activities is to identify the wishes of customers worldwide 
in advance, in order to actively help shape trends and 
thereby drive transformation – a strategy discerniable in 
production vehicles such as the BMW iX *. In its develop-
ment work, the BMW Group focuses on two key areas. 
Firstly, innovative digital solutions that make people’s 
everyday lives easier and at the same time protect the 
environment, and secondly, as a premium provider in its 
industry, the Group sees it as an obligation to offer cus-
tomers a diverse range of customised, efficient drivetrain 
technologies ranging from all-electric drive systems, to 
plug-in hybrids and highly efficient internal combustion 
engines. This also includes hydrogen fuel cell technology, 
which the Group believes could become an additional 
option in the long term. 

The  BMW  Group’s  culture  of  innovation  is  most 
deeply rooted in its global research and development 
network. However, innovation is a lot more than that 
for the BMW Group: throughout the entire company it 
is both the basis and the driving force behind the quest 
to replace the good with the better. Innovative solutions 
benefit society in a number of ways: economically, eco-
logically and socially.

The  dynamics  of  the  markets  in  which  the 
BMW Group operates are largely determined by customer 
expectations and therefore by demand. The BMW Group 
therefore focuses on the wishes and needs of its cus-
tomers. Market expectations have a direct impact on the 
range of vehicles on offer. How big does the vehicle need 
to be? Which drivetrain variant fits your own lifestyle? 
For this reason, the BMW Group offers a broad range 
of drivetrain systems and aims to offer corresponding 
electrified  models  for  all  of  its  brands  and  for  every 
series. Ultimately, a business model is successful and 
sustainable  in  the  long  term  by  offering  tailor-made 
solutions and assuring customers who are confident in 
their purchasing decisions. Since 2020, the BMW X3 has 
been the benchmark in this regard. It is now available in 
all four drivetrain variants: as an iX3 * with an all-electric 
drivetrain, as a plug-in hybrid or as a model powered by 
a highly efficient diesel or petrol engine.

*  See 

  Fuel Consumption and CO2 Emissions Information. 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

63

THE FIFTH GENERATION OF ELECTRIC DRIVETRAINS: 
A MAJOR LEAP IN TERMS OF PRODUCTION AND 
 SUSTAINABILITY

THE BMW GROUP COVERS THE ENTIRE PROCESS CHAIN 
FOR ELECTRIC DRIVETRAINS

CAN THE HYDROGEN FUEL CELL SERVE AS A BUILDING 
BLOCK GOING FORWARD? 

Customer-oriented  innovations  frequently  begin 
with  basic  research.  Built  up  over  many  years,  the 
BMW Group’s expertise makes sustainable solutions 
possible. The new, in-house-developed electric motor 
does not contain any rare earth elements. The latest 
generation of batteries requires two-thirds less cobalt 
than its predecessors. The BMW Group also considers 
the factor of sustainability when sourcing the cobalt it 
uses. The metal is acquired transparently via a certified 
process and supplied to the battery cell producers for 
further processing. Details are available in the chapter 
Purchasing and Supplier Network 
 Purchasing and Supplier 
Network. The BMW Group has contractually agreed with 
the battery cell suppliers for the fifth generation of its 
eDrive electric drivetrain that only green electricity from 
renewable sources will be used in their production pro-
cesses, which should reduce carbon emissions by some 
ten million tonnes over the next ten years. In this fifth 
generation of the BMW Group’s electric drivetrain, the 
electric motor, transmission and power electronics are 
also installed within a compact space. The outstanding 
efficiency of the drivetrain components and the high 
energy density of the high-voltage battery enable ranges 
that conventional electric vehicles can only achieve with 
significantly larger and correspondingly heavier batteries 
and therefore lower efficiency. This electric drivetrain 
was deployed for the first time in the BMW iX3 *, which 
was  launched  in  2020.  From  2021  onwards,  further 
all-electric models such as the BMW iX * or the BMW i4 
will be powered by this state-of-the-art technology. 

*  See 

  Fuel Consumption and CO2 Emissions Information. 

Whether  electric  motors,  high-voltage  batteries, 
charging equipment or power electronics – since 2011 
the BMW Group has gained extensive experience with 
all  the  components  used  in  eDrive  technology  and 
places its emphasis on in-house developments. By the 
end of 2022, all German vehicle plants will produce at 
least one fully electric vehicle. The production system is 
capable of manufacturing vehicles either with internal 
combustion engines or electric drivetrains on a single 
line and can therefore also respond flexibly in terms of 
the type of drivetrain required by the customer. This 
level of flexibility in production allows the BMW Group 
to meet customer expectations in an ideal way. At the 
BMW Group’s Battery Research Centre, work on battery 
cells is currently focusing on features that provide a high 
degree of customer value, including energy density, peak 
power, longevity, charging properties, costs, behaviour 
at various temperatures and, last but not least, safety. 
At the same time, the BMW Group is building a pilot 
plant for lithium-ion battery cells near Munich, making 
the BMW Group the first automotive manufacturer to 
singlehandedly cover the entire process chain of electric 
driving and master it in technological terms.

The BMW Group is also investing in the enhanced 
development  of  hydrogen  fuel  cell  technology.  The 
BMW i Hydrogen NEXT, which is based on the X5, al-
ready awakened a great deal of interest among visitors 
at the IAA 2019. In the long term, hydrogen technology 
could become a further component in the BMW Group’s 
drivetrain range. If the supply of renewably produced 
hydrogen can be ensured, this technology will provide an 
attractive option for combining emissions-free mobility 
with long-distance capability and short refuelling times. 
The BMW Group is convinced that different forms of 
drivetrain will continue to exist side by side in the future, 
as customer expectations cannot be met with a single 
solution on an international basis. Beginning in 2022, 
the BMW Group will present a low-volume series of the 
BMW i Hydrogen NEXT featuring the second generation 
of its hydrogen fuel cell drive system. To make this aim a 
reality, the BMW Group has been collaborating success-
fully with Toyota Motor Corporation since 2013. The new 
drivetrain technology will be combined with the fifth 
generation of the eDrive, which will then generate its en-
ergy from a fuel cell instead of a high-voltage battery. The 
BMW Group has also developed this technology in-house 
as an overall system. However, the appropriate political 
and infrastructural framework conditions first need to be 
created if green hydrogen is to become widely available 
in sufficient quantities and at competitive prices. Hy-
drogen can also play a key role in powering heavy-duty 
and commercial vehicles with the aim of making logistics 
carbon-neutral going forward. The BMW Group’s Leipzig 
and Spartanburg plants have already been using trans-
port vehicles powered by renewably produced hydrogen 
for a number of years. 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

THE BMW iX *: ELECTRIC FROM THE GROUND UP

In November 2020, the BMW Group gave the public 
its first preview of the BMW iX, the first of which are 
scheduled for delivery to customers in the course of 
2021. Right from the start, the BMW iX was designed 
exclusively to provide electric mobility that is suitable for 
everyday use. The vehicle is powered by the fifth genera-
tion of BMW eDrive technology, which the BMW Group 
has developed in-house and consists of twin electric 
motors, power electronics, charging technology and a 
high-voltage battery produced without the use of rare 
earths.  Fully  electric  and  featuring  four-wheel  drive 
technology, it will enable ranges of over 600 km in the 
WLTP cycle. Equipped with innovative charging technol-
ogy and a highly efficient drivetrain, the BMW iX can be 
charged to enable a range of over 120 km in a mere ten 
minutes. Thanks to the development of new technologies, 
the kidney-shaped grille of the BMW iX has now been 

given a new function as a smart surface where camera 
technology, radar and other sensor-based features are 
located behind a transparent exterior. Through the use 
of innovative materials, the surface of the grille also has 
a self-healing effect that makes light scratches disappear 
by themselves. Moreover, as the first 5G-capable model 
to be made by a premium manufacturer, the BMW iX will 
also be the BMW Group’s technology flagship in terms 
of digitalisation going forward. In addition, gigabit Eth-
ernet technology is being used for the first time in this 
innovative vehicle, enabling extremely large volumes of 
data from sensors and antennas, for example, to be trans-
mitted through the vehicle within fractions of a second 
and then processed in the centralised high-performance 
computers of the vehicle’s on-board system. Moreover, 
some of this data is also transmitted to the cloud, an-
alysed and returned to the vehicle fleet, depending on 
the situation, creating new services for customers. For 
instance, information on danger spots detected by these 
vehicles, such as black ice, will be made available to the 
entire fleet, as well as tips on where a free parking space 
is most likely to be found upon arrival. When using all 
these digital technology innovations, the BMW Group 
places great emphasis on ensuring that drivers and pas-
sengers can perceive and operate new features intuitively, 
effortlessly and without distraction – regardless of how 
technically complex they may be. These functions are 
known as shy tech, i. e.  technology that only becomes 
visible when needed. 

*  See 

  Fuel Consumption and CO2 Emissions Information. 

64

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE – THE BASIS FOR AUTOMATED 
DRIVING AND INTERACTION WITH THE VEHICLE

 Since the end of 2020, over 400 data-driven and 
AI applications have been helping the BMW Group pro-
cess and interpret big data throughout all relevant areas 
of the company. Artificial intelligence is also deployed 
when it comes to developing an algorithm that enables 
safe and predictive automated driving features, helping 
to analyse the approximately 250 million kilometres of 
“experience” gained to date (as of October 2020). Even 
now, BMW Group customers are already experiencing 
the capabilities of AI technologies as they drive. Since the 
end of 2018, an Intelligent Personal Assistant has been 
offering them support upon request. Since the second 
half of 2020, more than 70 % of BMW vehicles have been 
equipped with the BMW Intelligent Personal Assistant 
as standard. For example, commands given in natural 
speech enable drivers to comfortably operate numerous 
vehicle functions without having to take their hands off 
the steering wheel. 

CUSTOMER-CENTRIC DEVELOPMENT

Via the BMW Group’s international development net-
work, the varying regional needs and requirements of its 
customers worldwide are being incorporated into design, 
research and development. Group locations worldwide 
are in direct dialogue with their various regions. The 
BMW Group conducts an average of 70 customer studies 
per year in the area of display and operating concepts 
alone. The Group also researches dialogue formats and 
upcoming trends. 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

In  a  state-of-the-art  innovation  process,  the 
BMW Group also uses its ability to change perspectives 
when required. In this respect, it is the first automotive 
manufacturer to collaborate with Epic Games, a com-
puter games developer. The BMW Group has modified 
gaming technologies and adapted them for use in vehi-
cle development as well as in production planning and 
customer presentation at the retail level. In the field of 
vehicle development, new components and systems can 
therefore be tested intensively at a very early stage so 
that they can later be used by the customer simply and 
intuitively to the greatest extent possible. Technologies 
originating from the computer games industry such as 
mixed reality and game engines are key elements that 
are making an important contribution in this respect. 
Internationally staffed teams of developers work simul-
taneously  and  interactively  with  one  another  before 
hardware prototypes are additionally made available. In 
a mixed reality environment, technical solutions can be 
analysed at an early stage on a virtual ride before the 
first samples are made physically available, effectively 
cutting testing costs and, last but not least, minimising 
development times. 

The BMW Group operates an international network 
of research and development locations to ensure that 
ideas can swiftly and directly become innovations for 
customers in the form of ideas to offer. The network 
provides the ideal environment for experts to work cre-
atively in internationally connected teams to promote 
knowledge transfer and even faster, integrated, flexible 
collaboration for effectively developing the major trends 
of the future. This combined network of research and 
development expertise is continuously being expanded 
and strengthened in a competence-oriented manner. 

65

INNOVATION CULTURE IN THE MAKING: A NEW 
 CENTRALISED HUB OF THE BMW GROUP’S GLOBAL 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT NETWORK COMES 
INTO BEING.

The Munich Research and Innovation Centre (FIZ) 
is the main hub of the Group’s international network of 
14 research and development locations. The first phase 

of construction completed in the course of enlarging the 
Munich FIZ went into operation in autumn 2020. On 
the FIZ campus, the focus is on transformation and the 
future-related topics of electrification, digitalisation and 
connectivity. With over 90 petabytes of storage capacity, 
100 test benches, 200 laboratories and the directly adja-
cent prototype construction facility, the FIZ has grown 
to become one of the largest research and development 
centres in Europe. 

BMW Operating System 7: new features in version 07 / 20 

smartphones  wirelessly  within  the  vehicle  and  access  their  apps  via 
touch control without having to directly operate their smartphone. Navi-
gation instructions provided by Google Maps are shown on both the info 
display and the head-up display.

BMW eDrive zones: plug-in hybrids can use geofencing to detect when 
they  are  entering  an  environmentally  restricted  zone  or  a  city  centre. 
They then automatically switch to electric mode after previously ensur-
ing that the vehicle’s battery is fully charged, enabling them to drive lo-
cally emissions-free and almost silently where it has the greatest impact.

Charging management: electrified models are provided with addition-
al  information  and  services via the  Connected  Charging  feature.  Pub-
lic  charging  stations  and their  availability  are  displayed  and  addition-
al information is also shown, for example on providers, opening hours 
or suggestions for places of interest and cafes or restaurants nearby.

Finding a parking space: customers can be assisted via various services 
when searching for a parking space. The on-street parking information, 
for example, calculates where a parking space is most likely to be free.

Digital key: in collaboration with Apple, the BMW Group is the first car 
manufacturer to offer its customers the option of using their iPhone as 
a fully fledged digital car key. It unlocks the vehicle at the door handle 
and the engine can be started when it is placed in the smartphone com-
partment. Access rights can be shared with other people and config-
ured in the process and there is a specially designed mode for inexpe-
rienced drivers. 

Navigation / BMW Maps: the cloud-based system has a great many ad-
vantages.  The  route  calculation  feature  combines  real-time  informa-
tion  with  forecast  models  and  therefore  acts  more  dynamically  and 
swiftly  than  ever.  Additional  context-based  information  such  as  rat-
ings,  business  opening  hours  and  pictures  of  interesting  places  pro-
vide  BMW  Group  customers  with  excellent  support.  Entering  a  des-
tination  has  now  been  made  far  more  convenient  due to the  free text 
function, which uses a single search line and adds suggestions for rel-
evant search terms.

Intelligent Personal Assistant: the BMW Group has revamped the look 
of the BMW Intelligent Personal Assistant and made it more emotion-
al. The Assistant is able to distinguish between the driver’s and the pas-
senger’s speech, learns and even leans towards the respective conver-
sation partner. 

Apple  Car  Play  allows  navigation  information  from  Apple  Maps to  be 
displayed  on  both  the  head-up  display  and  the  info  display.  Google 
Android Auto is also integrated: customers can use functions on their 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

66

ALWAYS UP TO DATE VIA RADIO INTERFACE 

INNOVATION IN PRODUCTION 

INSPIRATION AND COOPERATION

In production scenarios, innovations can act in two 
different ways: they serve the purpose of conserving re-
sources and thus further boosting efficiency 
  Production, 
Purchasing  and  Supplier  Network,  but  they  can  also  help  to 
implement new product ideas and design options. Dig-
italisation is thus also paving the way for completely 
new applications that enable owners to customise their 
vehicles, such as by adding individual equipment features 
for the MINI. Furthermore, the BMW Group opened 
the Additive Manufacturing Campus in summer 2020. 
Production, research and even further training on the 
subject of additive manufacturing (i. e. 3D printing) are 
combined under one roof at the location. The Campus 
is also capable of manufacturing components for series 
production vehicles. 

The best ideas often come into being when different 
partners work together. Regional BMW Group Technolo-
gy Offices are searching for promising young companies 
worldwide in fields of innovation such as sensor tech-
nology, artificial intelligence, battery technology, smart 
materials, natural user interfaces and smart logistics. 
Cooperations in which the strengths of the BMW Group 
complement those of established partners also help to 
enhance the innovative strength of the BMW Group. 
 Cooperations and partnerships For the BMW Group, main-
taining its innovation network also includes intensive 
dialogue with selected colleges and universities. Every 
year, thousands of students come to the BMW Group to 
complete an internship or write a scientific thesis. Many 
Group employees also work as lecturers at universities 
and  higher  education  institutions.  The  BMW  Group 
maintains close partnerships with six universities and 
research institutions to conduct joint research projects 
that combine knowledge transfer with the training of 
highly qualified junior staff. 

 The remote software upgrade function keeps BMW 
vehicles continuously up to date. The software updates 
can be conveniently downloaded to the vehicle whether 
at home or on the road and contain improvements or 
even fully new vehicle features. In autumn 2020, the 
BMW Group rolled out the most extensive remote soft-
ware upgrade in its history. The free-of-charge improve-
ments and new attractive features were made available 
over-the-air  to  more  than  750,000  BMW  Operating 
System 7 (version 07 / 20) vehicles worldwide. 

Moreover, Remote Software Upgrade allows drivers 
to purchase and activate additional optional features. For 
example, the Highbeam Assist or Active Cruise Control 
with the Stop&Go function can also be subsequently in-
stalled quickly and easily over the air, even on vehicles 
that have already been delivered to customers. Customers 
can therefore benefit from the latest technological devel-
opments and have the opportunity to test functions that 
were not yet needed at the time of purchase for a certain 
period of time with the option to purchase them. 

Apps  have  been  offering  customers  an  effortless 
connection between their smartphones and the vehicle 
since 2013. A new generation of the My BMW app has 
been available on 30 European markets as well as in 
China and Korea since December 2020. My BMW is the 
new universal interface to the vehicle and, depending on 
how it is equipped, also enables selected features to be 
activated remotely, such as vehicle localisation. 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

67

Cooperations and partnerships 

HERE 

YOUR NOW

Under the name YOUR NOW, the BMW Group and Daimler AG are offering 
innovative, customer-friendly solutions for business partners, cities and 
municipalities looking to make their mobility more efficient and sustain-
able. The cooperation includes the joint ventures FREE NOW (ride-shar-
ing services) with REACH NOW (on-demand mobility and multimodality), 
PARK  NOW  (parking)  with  CHARGE  NOW  (charging)  and  SHARE  NOW 
(car  sharing).  Further  information  is  available  in the  chapter 
 Mobility 
Patterns.

To maintain its successful course in the long term, the BMW Group en-
ters into targeted cooperations and partnerships not only with companies 
from the automotive industry, but also with technology leaders from other 
sectors. The aim of interacting with external partners is to combine exper-
tise against the backdrop of rapid technological change and make innova-
tions available to customers within the shortest time possible.

BMW Brilliance Automotive (BBA)

BMW  Brilliance  Automotive Ltd.  is  a  50:50  joint  venture  between  the 
BMW  Group  and  Brilliance  China  Automotive  Holdings Ltd.,  which  was 
founded in 2003. BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. produces BMW brand 
models in one engine plant and two automobile plants in Shenyang, Chi-
na. Production of the BMW iX3 * began there in 2020. 

The BMW Group intends to increase its shareholding in BBA from 50 % 
to 75 %. The BMW Group already signed an agreement to that effect with 
its partner Brilliance China Automotive Holdings Ltd. (CBA) in 2018. Fol-
lowing approval by the Annual General Meeting of CBA, completion of the 
agreement remains subject to regulatory approvals.

Spotlight 

The aim of Spotlight Automotive Limited (Spotlight), a joint venture be-
tween the BMW Group and the Chinese manufacturer Great Wall Motors, 
is to produce all-electric MINIs for the BMW Group as well as electric vehi-
cles for Great Wall Motors. The joint venture also includes the joint devel-
opment of battery-powered electric vehicles. Spotlight was established 
on  27 December 2019,  following  approval  from the  Chinese  authorities 
and the first stage of construction has already begun. 

Together  with  the  intention  to  increase  its  shareholding  in  BBA,  the 
BMW Group is significantly expanding its presence in China and under-
lining its commitment on that market.

Since  BMW AG,  Daimler AG  and  AUDI AG  acquired the  HERE  mapping 
service in 2015, the partners have been working on high-precision dig-
italised  maps  that  can  be  linked  to  real-time  vehicle  data.  Digitalised 
maps create the basis for the next generation of location-related servic-
es, thereby marking the next key step in the evolution of individual mobili-
ty. They also form the basis for developing new assistance systems. As an 
independent platform, HERE has always remained accessible for the au-
tomotive industry as well as other partners. In 2020, Mitsubishi Corpo-
ration (MC) and Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation of Japan 
(NTT) jointly acquired 30 % of the business. As a result, the location data 
and technology platform now has nine direct and indirect shareholders: 
Audi,  Bosch, the  BMW  Group,  Continental,  Intel,  MC,  Mercedes-Benz, 
NTT and Pioneer.

Toyota Motor Corporation (TMC) 

As strong, independent companies, the BMW Group and TMC have been 
collaborating successfully in various fields since 2011, including fuel cell 
technology. The BMW Group was primarily responsible for developing a 
joint  sports  car  platform,  and  series  production  of these  brand-specific 
vehicles has been ongoing since the end of 2018.

IONITY

The BMW Group is a founding partner of the IONITY joint venture, the aim 
of which is to establish a comprehensive, high-performance, high-power 
charging (HPC) network for electric vehicles. The joint venture represents 
a vital step towards ensuring that electric mobility also becomes a viable 
means of transport over long distances, thus establishing it on the mar-
ket. All IONITY charging points are publicly accessible, brand-independ-
ent and designed in accordance with the European Combined Charging 
System (CCS) standard. The founding partners (the BMW Group, Daim-
ler AG, the  Ford  Motor  Company  as  well  as the Volkswagen  Group  with 
Audi and Porsche) all participated in equal measure. In 2019, the Hyundai 
Motor Group with its Hyundai and Kia brands was accepted as an addition-
al shareholder. The joint venture is, however, also open to further partners. 

*  See 

  Fuel Consumption and CO2 Emissions Information. 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
68

Combined Management Report

General  Information and Group Profile

BMW GROUP PERFORMANCE INDICATORS RELATING 
TO RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES

in %

Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues

Research and  development expenditure ratio 1

Capitalisation rate 2

2020

5.7

6.3

36.6

2019

Change in %-pts.

5.7

6.2

33.2

0.0

0.1

3.4

in € million

2020

2019

Change in %

Research and development expenses

New expenditure for capitalised development costs

Amortisation

Research and development expenditure 3

1  Research and development expenditure as a percentage of Group revenues.
2  Capitalised development costs as a percentage of research and development expenditure.
3  Research and development expenditure comprises the sum of research and non-capitalised development cost  

and capitalised development cost (not including the associated scheduled amortisation).

5,689

2,300

– 1,710

6,279

5,952

2,134

– 1,667

6,419

– 4.4

7.8

2.6

– 2.2

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Products and Services

69

PRODUCTS 
AND  SERVICES

PROMISED

We aim to reduce the  
CO2 EMISSIONS of  
our European new vehicle  
fleet BY HALF between  

1995 and 2020.

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Products and Services

70

DELIVERED

Mission  

accomplished.  
MINUS 53 %. 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Products and Services

71

“At the BMW Group, we are creating 
the digital, emission-free and dynamic 
driving of the future. 

As a tech company, we master ʻsheer 
driving pleasureʼ, today and tomorrow. 

We  are  the  only  ones  to  combine 
dynamic performance and quality with 
safety and security for customers and 
data.”

Frank Weber 
Member of the Board of Management  
of BMW AG, Development

Pieter Nota 
Member of the  
Board of Management  
of BMW AG, Customer,  
Brands, Sales

“Our ambition: to provide the best 
premium  customer  experience  in  the 
industry. 

Premium is also defined in terms of 

sustainability.

That’s why we support our customers 
in making not only the best, but also the 
most responsible vehicle choice – includ-
ing a seamlessly integrated, convenient 
charging concept for our electric vehicles.”

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Products and Services

72

We made the  
RIGHT DECISIONS  

early on.

WHY ARE THE CO2 EMISSIONS 
OF THE NEW VEHICLE FLEET 
IN EUROPE THE BENCHMARK?

The EU requirements are among the 
strictest and most ambitious worldwide. 
Think of it this way: Once you’ve met Eu-
ropean requirements, it’s a lot easier to 
fulfil those in other markets and regions. 
Aside from that, Europe is also our biggest 
sales region. 

HOW DID THE BMW GROUP 
MEET THE TARGETS FOR 
2020? 

We made the right decisions – impor-
tant decisions – early on: We offer elec-
trified vehicles in every segment – while 
continuing to make our conventional drive 
trains more efficient. We ultimately over-
fulfilled the targets for 2020. And that’s a 
good thing, because we’re not interested 
in the goals themselves – it’s about con-
tributing to environmental responsibility.

CAN YOU GIVE US A GLIMPSE 
OF THE FUTURE? 

We are right on track for the targets 
for  2021,  but  the  goals  for  2030  are  a 
whole other dimension. I know that our 
product portfolio puts us in a very good 
position. But the conditions also have to 
be right – and that means significantly 
expanding charging infrastructure. 

Further information is available at: 

 report.bmwgroup.com

Christian Miedaner  
is responsible for CO2  
strategy during the  
product use phase.

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

Products and Services

73

DESIGN AND PRODUCT SAFETY

FUTURE-ORIENTED DESIGN 

 BMW Group vehicles combine emotional and func-
tional design with the highest of safety standards. Active 
and passive safety systems ensure greater safety on the 
road – not only for BMW Group customers, but for all 
other road users, too. When manufacturing its products, 
the BMW Group avoids the use of any substances that are 
hazardous to health. It also informs its customers about 
all the various safety aspects of its products and enables 
them to recognise and handle dangerous situations by 
providing driver safety training. The BMW Group en-
sures transparency, informational self-determination and 
data security when using its customers’ data.

The BMW Group is synonymous with future-oriented, 
emotional vehicle design that unites aesthetics with state-
of-the-art technology. It strives to create experiences 
for its customers through the design of its vehicles. A 
successful design makes vehicles coveted products that 
cater to the individual needs of customers the world over. 
The BMW, MINI, Rolls-Royce and BMW Motorrad brands 
each have their own independent design language. De-
signs created by the BMW Group should not only meet 
the high design standards of a globally leading premium 
automotive manufacturer, but make technical innova-
tions functional and intuitive to use at the same time. 

In order to make future mobility trends perceptible 
at the earliest stage of design, the BMW Group devel-
ops various types of prototypes. Concept vehicles, such 
as the BMW Concept i4, which was first presented in 
March 2020, are specifically used to communicate in 
advance how future series-produced vehicles will look. 
Vision vehicles such as the MINI Vision Urbanaut, which 
was unveiled at the BMW Group #NEXTGen event in No-
vember 2020, provide the public with a glimpse of how 
the Group’s future mobility concepts could be designed.

The globally operating company Designworks is also 
a subsidiary of the BMW Group and an inspiring studio 
that works to create thought-provoking design ideas for 
both the BMW Group and external customers. In its 
three studios in Los Angeles, Munich and Shanghai, it 
creates ambitious visions of the future that are meant to 
shape and improve our world.

USING SAFETY TECHNOLOGY TO MINIMISE RISKS

The BMW Group not only strives to create an emo-
tional connection between products and its customers via 
its design, it also designs and builds its vehicles to meet 
the highest safety standards, as it considers the safety of 
its vehicles an essential part of its product responsibility.

By  including  a  raft  of  active  and  passive  safety 
measures, the BMW Group is able to reduce the risk of 
accidents and injuries not only for vehicle occupants, but 
for other road users, too. Above all, these safety measures 
include optimised chassis tuning, highly effective braking 
systems, stable passenger compartments and airbags, but 
also digital driver assistance systems such as active cruise 
control, collision warning, lane guidance and emergency 
braking assistants. 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

Products and Services

74

REDUCING POLLUTANTS 

COMPREHENSIVE INFORMATION ON SAFETY ASPECTS

DATA PROTECTION IS A KEY TASK

 Right from the design stage of its vehicles, the 
BMW Group consciously avoids the use of problematic 
materials and substances and takes active steps to keep 
emissions within the passenger compartment to a mini-
mum. With this design strategy, the BMW Group seeks to 
ensure that legal requirements regarding product safety, 
human health protection and the environment are com-
plied with worldwide for each phase of the product life 
cycle, including development, use, recycling and disposal. 
In addition, all BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce brand vehi-
cles are equipped with passenger compartment air filters 
as standard, which filter out pollutants and particles such 
as dust or pollen from the outside air.

In 2020, the BMW Group installed passenger com-
partment filters featuring nanofibre filter technology 
for the first time, which keep certain microbial particles 
and allergens as well as ultra-fine particulate matter from 
entering the vehicle’s passenger compartment. Also in 
2020, nanofibre filters were installed for the first time 
in a Rolls-Royce as standard. From 2021, however, the 
innovative technology will gradually become available for 
numerous other BMW Group vehicle models.

The BMW Group provides customers with compre-
hensive information on the correct use of its products 
and services. Information on health and safety as well 
as the proper use of its vehicles is provided in printed 
form in the integrated owner’s manual and is also avail-
able electronically via a smartphone app or online. The 
information is supplemented by notes and additional 
background information on services, accessories and 
vehicle components.

DRIVER TRAINING TO PROMOTE GREATER ROAD 
 SAFETY

The BMW Group offers training for BMW and MINI 
brand automobiles as well as BMW motorcycles in over 
30 countries. In the BMW and MINI Driving Experience, 
it raises awareness of potentially dangerous situations 
and thus also contributes to road safety in general. De-
spite global restrictions due to the coronavirus pandemic, 
the Driving Experience trained over 70,000 participants 
worldwide at various international locations in 2020.

The BMW Group views data protection as one of the 
most important tasks of digitalisation. It takes data pro-
tection into account at an early stage in the development 
of its functions and services in order to ensure transpar-
ency, informational self-determination and data security 
for its customers. In order to maintain this high level 
of data protection in the long term, the BMW Group’s 
products and services are always developed according to 
security-by-design principles and continuously tested for 
security aspects (cybersecurity) throughout their entire 
life cycle. 

The  BMW  Group’s  product  responsibility  also 
includes  the  secure  transfer  of  vehicle  data  to  third 
parties. For this reason, BMW Group vehicles are not 
directly connected to the Internet, but communicate 
directly and exclusively with the BMW ConnectedDrive 
back-end service via a secure connection in a virtual 
private network. This precaution minimises the risk of 
unauthorised third parties gaining access to the vehicle 
or the driver’s personal data. The point of access to the 
Internet is controlled via a gateway. The BMW Group 
considers the provision of vehicle data via a secured back 
end (extended vehicle approach in accordance with ISO 
20078) the best solution for ensuring data security and 
thus a high level of data protection. 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

Products and Services

 In May 2017, the BMW Group introduced BMW 
and MINI CarData for the secure transmission of data to 
third parties. CarData is already available to BMW and 
MINI customers across all European markets. Custom-
ers can adjust their privacy settings to suit their own 
personal needs, either within their vehicles or on the 
ConnectedDrive portal, thereby retaining their right to 
informational self-determination. They can decide at any 
time which data to share with service providers (such 
as workshops, insurance companies and fleet manag-
ers) in order to receive customised service offers. The 
BMW Group has also been offering this service in the 
USA since April 2020.

Furthermore,  the  Group  works  closely  with  the 
relevant  data  protection  supervisory  authorities  to 
clarify fundamental data protection issues that relate 
to the increasing connectedness of its vehicles with the 
environment. For example, as a member of the German 
Association  of  the  Automotive  Industry  (VDA)  and 
the European Association of the Automotive Industry 
(ACEA), the BMW Group supports the principles on data 
protection they have drawn up. These principles focus 
on transparency, the informational self-determination of 
customers and the technical protection of data in their 
vehicles.

75

ENSURING SAFETY WITH QUALITY MANAGEMENT

CONTINUOUS FURTHER DEVELOPMENT OF SAFETY 
SYSTEMS

All  BMW  Group  vehicles  are  subject  to  stringent 
safety tests during development and production, some of 
which are even stricter than those prescribed by law. The 
BMW Group’s quality management does not end at the 
factory gate, but also extends to vehicles that customers 
are already using. If any deviations from the Group’s 
strict quality standards are observed in their markets, it 
systematically follows up on these indications. If neces-
sary, the Group informs the relevant authorities without 
delay and initiates any measures that may be required.

The BMW Group take voluntary technical action even 
if there is no immediate danger. Any vehicles potentially 
affected are checked, and if a fault is detected the cor-
responding components are replaced. If there is a safety 
risk of any kind, the BMW Group implements technical 
measures in collaboration with the relevant authorities. 
For this reason, the Group has established appropriate 
committees, processes and organisations that are man-
aged by the Product Support, Technical Actions and 
Warranty Costs department. 

 GRI 416-1

By systematically developing and improving its safety 
systems, the BMW Group is helping to reduce the risk of 
accidents and injuries for all road users. An important in-
dicator of this risk is the European New Car Assessment 
Programme (Euro NCAP), a scheme for assessing the 
safety of vehicles in the event of a crash. The results of 
the most recently assessed vehicles (four top Euro NCAP 
ratings for the BMW 1 Series, BMW 2 Series Gran Coupé, 
BMW 3 Series and BMW Z4) once again demonstrate the 
BMW Group’s premium standards in terms of vehicle 
safety.

In the years to come, the BMW Group will continue 
working to additionally enhance the safety of its vehicles. 
Apart from constantly optimising the passive safety of 
each individual vehicle, the Group is also focusing on 
improving road safety standards by means of connected 
and automated driving. This applies, for example, to the 
BMW iX *, which was unveiled during the year under 
report and will go into series production in 2021. With 
its even more efficient sensor technology, the vehicle will 
be equipped with new and improved automated driving 
and parking functions and set new standards for the 
BMW Group. 

*  See 

  Fuel Consumption and CO2 Emissions Information. 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

Products and Services

CARBON EMISSIONS 
AND POLLUTANTS

The fight against climate change is crucial for the 
future  of  our  society  –  and  thus  also  for  that  of  the 
BMW  Group.  For  this  reason,  it  is  placing  sustaina-
bility in the centre of its corporate strategy. In future, 
the BMW Group intends to be even more systematic in 
examining not only the economic, but also the ecological 
and social impact of its corporate decisions. The Group 
has therefore also committed to the requirements of the 
Paris Climate Agreement that are relevant to it and set 
itself the target of establishing a climate-neutral business 
model across its entire value chain by the year 2050. 

In 2020, the BMW Group undercut the EU’s manu-
facturer-specific fleet carbon emissions limit of 104 g / km 
by achieving a figure of 99 g / km according to internal 
calculations. 
 At the same time, it also accomplished 
the goal it set itself in 2012 of halving the carbon emis-
sions generated by its European new vehicle fleet by 2020 
compared with 1995. 
 Furthermore, the BMW Group 
will continue to work successfully on constantly reducing 
its carbon emissions going forward. The BMW Group 
aims to provide its customers with the best offers world-
wide, also in terms of sustainability. For this reason, the 
BMW Group’s drivetrain technology is based on two 
factors – highly efficient combustion engines and electric 
mobility.

76

NEW TARGETS FOR DECARBONISATION BY 2030

The BMW Group is committed to achieving long-
term carbon neutrality by 2050. Guided by this principle, 
it is taking extensive measures to substantially reduce 
the carbon and other pollutant emissions generated by 
its vehicles, as it has done in the past. In the year under 
report, the BMW Group therefore set itself specific new 
targets derived from the Science Based Targets Initia-
tive (SBTI) in order to further cut its carbon emissions 
below the level already achieved and is taking a holistic 
approach to accomplishing this aim. In this context, the 
Group intends to achieve a mitigation corridor across all 
the activities for which it is responsible that corresponds 
to the defined target set out in the 2015 Paris Climate 
Agreement, i. e. to limit global warming to between 1.5 
and 1.75 degrees Celsius. Within the value chain, this 
includes all three scopes defined under the umbrella of 
the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTI). By 2030, the 
BMW Group therefore intends to reduce the average car-
bon emissions generated by its new car fleet in the use 
phase by 40 % compared to 2019 (Scope 3 downstream). 
Furthermore, the BMW Group is scrutinising its entire 
value chain and striving to significantly reduce carbon 
emissions from the supply chain (Scope 3 upstream), 
its production processes (Scope 1 and 2) and the entire 
use phase. These targets have been notified to the SBTI 
and validated.

Recording carbon emissions  
from Scope 1 to Scope 3

The carbon emissions generated by a given company are record-
ed  in various  categories. The  Greenhouse  Gas  Protocol,  a  part-
nership  between  the  World  Resources  Institute  (WRI)  and  the 
World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), 
distinguishes between Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions, 
based on their various sources.

Whereas  Scope  1  emissions  are  generated  within  a  company 
through the combustion of fossil fuels, Scope 2 refers to the indi-
rect emissions caused by the consumption of electricity and heat 
from externally generated sources of energy. Scope 3 emissions 
are generated in the upstream and downstream stages of the val-
ue chain, both in the supply chain (upstream) and in the subse-
quent use of products and services (downstream).

FLEET CARBON EMISSIONS FURTHER REDUCED

The development of sustainable products and servic-
es has long been an integral part of the BMW Group’s 
business model. The early fleet-wide use of Efficient Dy-
namics technologies (since 2007) and the electrification 
of vehicles (since 2013) are continuously reducing carbon 
emissions in the long term. These twin factors form the 
basis for complying with and even undercutting legally 
prescribed carbon emissions and fuel consumption limits.

more than  
– 40 % 

drop in carbon emissions  
generated by the new car fleet  
in the use phase by 2030

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

Products and Services

Taking all regulatory requirements ¹ into account, the 
average carbon emissions generated by the BMW Group’s 
new  car  fleet  within  the  EU  (including  Norway  and 
 Iceland) according to the NEDC ² in the year under report 
amounted to 99 g CO₂ / km ³. The BMW Group therefore 
reduced its fleet carbon emissions by 28 g CO₂ / km com-
pared to the previous year (2019: 127 g CO₂ / km), approx-
imately 5 g CO₂ / km below the limit of 104 g CO₂ / km 
applicable to the BMW Group. 
 Between 1995 and 2020, 
the Group’s carbon emissions were reduced by around 
53 % 
. This success was achieved through the consistent 
electrification of the vehicle fleet and the continuous 
improvement in the efficiency of combustion engines. 

 GRI 302-5, 305-5

 Worldwide,  the  BMW  Group  reduced  its  fleet 
average  carbon  emissions  by  5 %  compared  to  the 
previous year to 133 g CO₂ / km ² in 2020 (simplified in-
ternal BMW Group calculation for its core markets EU, 
USA, China, Japan and Korea) (2019: 140 g CO₂ / km ). 

 DEVELOPMENT OF CO2 EMISSIONS OF BMW GROUP NEW VEHICLE FLEET IN THE EUROPEAN UNION 

Base year 1995 = 210 g CO₂/km

230

m
 k
/

²
O
C
g

90

77

(compared 
to base year 
1995)
– 53 % 

 GRI  305-3, 305-5 

1995

1996

1997

1998

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

  Year 

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

   Development of CO2 emissions of BMW Group new vehicle fleet in 
the EU from 1995 to 2017 (on the basis of the NEDC test cycle).

   Development of CO2 emissions of BMW Group new vehicle fleet in 
the EU (on the basis of the NEDC test cycle; provisional value for 
2018). Source: the International Council on Clean Transportation 
(ICCT), 1995–2009; European Environment Agency (EEA), 
2010–2019.

   Development of CO2 emissions of BMW Group new vehicle fleet  
in the EU from 2017 to 2020 (on the basis of the WLTP test cycle, 
retroactively calculated as an NEDC value for the purposes of 
 comparability). 2  

1  Flexibilities as defined in regulatory requirements: phase-in with 5 g / km, supercredits BEV / PHEV with 

7.5 g / km and eco-innovations with 2.4 g / km.

2  Since 2018, all vehicles in the EU must be licensed according to the new WLTP test cycle. However, 
the EU Commission will not start using WLTP to calculate fleet CO2 emissions until 2021. As a result, 
WLTP fleet emissions must be retroactively calculated as NEDC values for the purposes of reporting 
 until and in 2020. 

3  This is a preliminary internal calculation with a potential tolerance of + / – 0.5 g CO2 / km, as official registra-
tion figures have not been provided by all EU states. The EU Commission is not expected to publish official 
 figures until November 2021.

BMW GroupReport 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management Report

Products and Services

 In the USA, the average fleet emissions ¹ for the 
model  year  (MY)  2020  amounted  to  156 g CO₂ / km 
for  passenger  cars  (MY  2019:  157 g CO₂ / km)  and 
186 g CO₂ / km for light trucks (MY 2019: 188 g CO₂ / km). 
Fleet-weighted  CO₂  emissions  in  the  USA  averaged 
167 g CO₂ / km (MY 2019: 167 g CO₂ / km – BMW internal 
calculation). 

In China, average carbon emissions ² rose slightly to 
151 g CO₂ / km (2019: 144 g CO₂ / km). This is due to lower 
sales of electrified models in China, while overall sales 
are increasing. 

 GRI 302-5, 305-5 

RANGE OF ELECTRIFIED VEHICLES FURTHER EXPANDED

The BMW Group sees wide-ranging opportunities 
to further reduce fuel consumption and pollutant emis-
sions in the electrification of power trains. This point 
is particularly relevant against the backdrop of global 
decarbonisation targets, for example in the EU, China or 
the USA (particularly California), and the sustainability 
targets the BMW Group has set itself for 2030. For this 
reason, the BMW Group again expanded its range of 
electrified vehicles during the 2020 reporting year. By 
2030, the Group plans to have delivered at least seven mil-
lion electrified vehicles to its customers. 

 Electric Mobility

7 million 

electrified vehicles delivered  
by 2030

78

CONVENTIONAL DRIVETRAINS MORE EFFICIENT AND 
WITH LOWER EMISSIONS 

 The BMW Group continues to work intensively 
on reducing fuel consumption and carbon emissions 
in  its  conventionally  powered  vehicles.  Since  2007, 
the BMW Group has been implementing its Efficient 
 Dynamics package of technological measures through-
out the fleet, comprising various coordinated measures 
to reduce fuel consumption. In this context, the Group 
continued to optimise the efficiency of its combustion 
engines throughout the year under report by deploying 
recuperation systems and continuous emissions reduc-
tion measures. Recuperation systems utilise the energy 
recovered from the braking process to supply the vehi-
cle’s electrical system and generate additional power for 
the drivetrain. For this reason they are often referred to 
as mild hybrid vehicles. 

 Electrified Vehicles

Since the early 1990s, the BMW Group has managed 
to significantly reduce the pollutant emissions generated 
by its vehicles by deploying new technologies and mak-
ing improvements to existing ones. In Europe alone, it 
has reduced the relevant exhaust emissions of the new 
vehicle fleets for diesel passenger cars in accordance with 
the threshold values of the standards Euro 1 to Euro 6 
from 1992 to 2019 by well over 90 % compared to the level 
recorded prior to the introduction of the Euro emissions 
standards. 
 GRI 305-7 The introduction of new models 
with even lower-emissions drivetrain technologies has 
made a significant contribution to this result. In the 
year under report, the BMW Group also converted all 
its remaining models to the Euro 6d emissions standard. 

The BMW Group expects modern, highly efficient 
diesel engines to continue playing an important role. As 
part of its Efficient Dynamics approach, the BMW Group 
will therefore continue to work on reducing the consump-
tion of conventional drivetrain systems and boosting 
their efficiency in the foreseeable future. It intends to 
continue along this route, taking innovative approaches 
to the combustion engine, aerodynamics and lightweight 
design. The use of 48-volt technology is another key 
component in the BMW Group’s efforts to reduce its 
carbon emissions.

Artificial intelligence (AI) can also contribute to cut-
ting carbon emissions and vehicle fuel consumption. The 
BMW Group is conducting research into how AI could 
make energy management in vehicles adaptive, enabling 
energy consumption to be modified to suit the needs of 
the driver and further improve energy efficiency.

Nitrogen oxide levels are a crucial factor for the air 
quality in towns and cities. With this point in mind, since 
mid-2018 the BMW Group has installed a highly effective 
combination of an NOx storage catalytic converter (NSC) 
and an SCR system (SCR: selective catalytic reduction) 
with  urea  injection  technology  (AdBlue)  in  all  BMW 
diesel models as well as in the larger MINI diesels. As 
part of its continuous further development strategy, the 
BMW Group has additionally improved the efficiency of 
its exhaust gas after-treatment technology by utilising 
an oxidation catalytic converter in conjunction with two 
SCR catalytic converters. In 2020, this new technique 
was launched and rolled out across the Group’s product 
portfolio together with the revised generation of its diesel 
engines. 

1  Basis: USC (United States Combined).
2  Basis: NEDC (New European Driving Cycle).

BMW GroupReport 2020 
79

With this approach of taking the entire vehicle life 
cycle into account, the BMW Group intends to realise its 
ambition of achieving substantial improvement from one 
vehicle generation to the next. The Group implements its 
targets and assesses its progress during the development 
process based on a carbon footprint in accordance with 
the ISO 14040 / 44 standard. 

 Electric Mobility 

Combined Management Report

Products and Services

 With  the  aim  of  spreading  these  innovations 
for  improving  air  quality  as  swiftly  as  possible,  the 
BMW Group offered a scrappage bonus in Germany in 
2020. The move was intended to rejuvenate the passenger 
car fleet and thus contribute quickly and effectively to 
reducing nitrogen oxide emissions. In 2019 and 2020, 
there were already first signs of a noticeable reduction 
in NOx pollution in German cities, partially due to the 
progressive renewal of the fleets of all automotive man-
ufacturers. 

 GRI 416-2

matters agreed therein are valid for every state in the 
USA – one of the BMW Group’s largest sales markets. 
The commitments made enhance the Group’s long-term 
planning security in the face of political change and are 
in line with increasingly stringent legislation worldwide 
designed to reduce vehicle emissions. In view of the 
growing  popularity  of  electric  mobility,  for  example, 
the BMW Group sees the rapid expansion and technical 
harmonisation of charging infrastructure as an urgent 
requirement. In the USA and Europe in particular, the 
slow pace of infrastructural expansion is still holding 
back the spread of electric mobility.

SUCCESSFUL REDUCTION SURPASSES LEGAL 
REQUIREMENTS

The BMW Group has the clear ambition to meet statu-
tory carbon emissions requirements. Within the EU, the 
Group succeeded in improving on fleet carbon targets 
during the year under report. With respect to fleet car-
bon limits in other regulated markets, the BMW Group is 
also explicitly aiming to comply with the limits and keep 
its emissions as far below them as possible, which it again 
succeeded in doing in the year under report.

The BMW Group supports the development of har-
monised national regulations, also on an international 
basis to the extent possible. Comparable regulations in 
major markets create reliable, predictable framework 
conditions that make a key contribution to combating 
climate change and improving air quality. In view of 
its commitment to complying with the climate goals 
enshrined  in  the  Paris  Agreement,  during  the  year 
under report the BMW Group entered into a voluntary 
agreement with the US State of California to reduce fleet 
emissions over and above national requirements. The 

MANAGEMENT OVER THE ENTIRE LIFE CYCLE 

In order to meet market-specific fleet requirements 
and its own even more ambitious decarbonisation tar-
gets, the BMW Group is taking an holistic approach to 
reducing emissions throughout the entire life cycle of its 
vehicles. This approach is particularly relevant, as – de-
spite the expansion of electric mobility having an overall 
positive impact on carbon emissions in the use phase – 
emissions levels in the supply chain are increasing due to 
the use of more carbon-intensive components, especially 
those installed in high-voltage battery systems. For this 
reason, right from the product development stage of new 
vehicle projects, the BMW Group has defined specific 
targets for reducing carbon emissions across the entire 
life cycle. The strategy applies equally to the vehicle de-
velopment, the supply chain, production, the use phase, 
and finally recycling at the end-of-life phase.

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

Products and Services

80

ELECTRIC MOBILITY

AMBITIOUS TARGETS FOR EXPANDING ELECTRIC 
MOBILITY

PRODUCT OFFERING EXPANDED AND SALES VOLUME 
INCREASED 

 Electric mobility is one of the key topics of the 
future when it comes to making road travel sustainable 
and a more pleasant experience. In recent years, the 
BMW  Group  has  significantly  expanded  its  range  of 
electrified vehicles and related services. It therefore sees 
itself as one of the leading providers of premium electric 
mobility, measured on the basis of its cumulative sales 
volume figures between 2013 and 2020 and in light of 
the holistic approach it is taking. 

The BMW Group’s electrified vehicles combine the 
advantages of sustainable mobility with dynamic drive-
train behaviour. Fully electric battery-powered models 
(BEVs) generate zero local emissions and can significantly 
reduce traffic noise levels in towns and cities. 

The BMW Group is pursuing the goal of substantially 
further decarbonising its vehicles and thereby achieving 
a worldwide reduction in carbon emissions in the use 
phase (Scope 3 downstream in accordance with SBTI 
 Carbon Emissions and Pollutants and Paris Climate Agreement 
targets. A key part of its product strategy is therefore to 
systematically continue electrifying its model range. The 
BMW Group has set itself ambitious targets: by 2025, the 
proportion of electrified vehicles in its total deliveries is 
to rise to at least 25 %. By 2030, the BMW Group plans to 
have delivered at least seven million electrified vehicles ¹.

To ensure that it achieves its sales volume targets 
for electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles, the BMW Group 
plans to more than double its sales of electrified vehi-
cles by the end of 2021 compared with 2019 figures 
(2019: 146,158 ² units). Based on its existing plans, the 
BMW Group will have 25 electrified models on the road 
by 2023. 

 The BMW Group is consciously focusing on battery 
electric vehicles (BEV) and plug-in hybrid technology 
(PHEV), enabling customers to select the form of drive-
train that best suits their respective mobility needs. In 
order to serve regionally varying customer requirements, 
the BMW Group assembles a variety of drivetrain tech-
nologies on the same production line. 

During  the  year  under  report,  the  BMW  Group 
launched further models with hybrid drivetrains: the 
BMW X1 xDrive25e ³, X2 xDrive25e ³, X3 xDrive 30e ³, 
330e Touring ³, 330e xDrive Sedan ³, 330e xDrive Tour-
ing ³, 530e Sedan ³, 530e Touring ³, 530e xDrive Sedan ³, 
530e xDrive Touring ³ and 545e xDrive Sedan ³. These 
were joined by two additional all-electric models, the 
MINI Cooper SE ³ and the BMW iX3 ³, which has been 
available in Europe since the end of January 2021. The 
BMW iX3 ³ is already equipped with the technology of the 
fifth, and thus latest, generation of BMW Group battery 
cells. 

  Glossary.

1  See 
2  Retail vehicle delivery data presented for 2020 is not directly comparable to such data presented for previous 

years. For further information on retail vehicle delivery data, please see 
 Actual Outcomes.

3  See 

  Fuel Consumption and CO2 Emissions Information. 

  Comparison of Forecast with  

≥ 25 % 

proportion of electrified vehicles in 
total deliveries by 2025 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

Products and Services

 In  November 2020,  the  Group  presented  the 
BMW iX ¹, featuring new electric drivetrain technology, 
substantially enhanced connectivity and innovative in-
terior design. The BMW iX ¹ also features a range of over 
600 km (WLTP) and shorter charging times. The vehicle 
can be charged for a range of over 120 km in roughly 
ten minutes. 

In 2020, the BMW Group delivered 192,662 electri-
fied vehicles (2019: 146,158 units ²). Further information 
is available in the “Automotive segment” section of the 

 Business Report.

  Fuel Consumption and CO2 Emissions Information. 

1  See 
2  Retail vehicle delivery data presented for 2020 is not directly comparable to such data presented for previous 

years. For further information on retail vehicle delivery data, please see 
 Actual Outcomes.

  Comparison of Forecast with  

3  The range has already been determined in accordance with the new WLTP test cycle (Worldwide harmo-

nized Light vehicles Test Procedure) and recalculated to NEDC (New European Driving Cycle) for compara-
bility. The actual range depends on various factors, including personal driving style, route characteristics, 
the outside temperature, heating, air conditioning, preheating and precooling. Provisional figure.

81

RANGE INCREASED TO MEET CUSTOMER NEEDS

FURTHER INVESTMENTS IN ELECTRIFICATION

The BMW Group invests on an ongoing basis in the 
planning and development of new vehicle models. The 
figure of 25 electrified models previous targeted to be on 
the roads by 2025 has now been brought forward to 2023.

Around  half  of  the  25  models  will  be  offered  as 
all-electric versions. The BMW Group also intends to 
offer its high-volume models as purely battery-powered 
versions. From today’s perspective, the European Union’s 
target of attaining climate neutrality by 2050, the interim 
targets discussed in the context of the Green Deal and 
the similarly ambitious climate policy targets of other 
countries can only be achieved with a variety of parallel 
technologies if customers are to continue being offered 
a range of mobility options that meet their specific and 
differing needs going forward. Even today, from a  global 
viewpoint  there  are  driving  profiles  that  cannot  yet 
be covered by an all-electric vehicle due to physical or 
technical restrictions or insufficient access to a viable 
charging infrastructure. 

 To enable customers to cover as much of their daily 
driving as possible emissions-free, the BMW Group is sys-
tematically increasing the electric range of its plug-in hy-
brids (PHEV) and battery-powered electric vehicles (BEV) 
by introducing new technologies. Hence, for PHEVs, the 
Group has increased the range of the BMW X5 PHEV ¹ 
from 31 km (2015: NEDC data) to 80 km ³, the BMW 
530e PHEV ¹ from 45 km (2017: NEDC data) to 60 km ³ 
and the BMW 330e PHEV ¹ from 40 km (2016: NEDC 
data) to 60 km ³. In the BEV segment, the range of the 
BMW i3 BEV ¹ increased from 300 km (2016: NEDC data) 
to 359 km ³. 

To further increase the range of its electrified vehicles, 
the BMW Group is improving both the energy density 
and the efficiency of its battery cells. For example, the 
high-voltage battery in the BMW iX3 ¹ has a 20 % higher 
energy density and the power density of the electric 
motor has also been increased by 30 %.

As a matter of principle, the BMW Group takes a 
differentiated view to increasing the electric range and 
does not necessarily consider it expedient to aim for 
a  maximum  range  for  all  electrified  vehicles,  and  is 
rather of the opinion that it makes more sense to offer 
customers tailor-made solutions by producing a fleet of 
vehicles with varying ranges. Resource use and resource 
efficiency – advantages that also benefit the customer. 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
 
Combined Management Report

Products and Services

82

 PHEVs and highly efficient internal combustion 
engines are therefore a more likely choice in this envi-
ronment. For these reasons, the BMW X3 * is the first 
model series to be available in two variants, firstly with 
a combustion engine and secondly as a plug-in hybrid 
version, thanks to the BMW Group’s scalable, modular 
construction system. The BMW iX3 * is also available with 
its all-electric drivetrain. 

Quite apart from battery-powered electric drivetrain 
systems, the BMW Group also continues to see the poten-
tial of fuel cells, a technology embedded in the hydrogen 
strategy of various countries. The Group is planning to 
produce a small series of the BMW i Hydrogen NEXT 
from 2022. Moreover, as an associated partner of H2 
Mobility Deutschland GmbH, the BMW Group is in-
terested in establishing the infrastructure required for 
hydrogen-powered vehicles.

ACHIEVING SUSTAINABILITY OVER THE ENTIRE 
LIFE CYCLE

The BMW Group considers both decarbonisation 
targets and market-specific fleet requirements right from 
the product development stage. In doing so, it defines 
specific targets that ensure well-balanced optimisation 
over the entire life cycle. 

and other pollutant emissions as well as the use of critical 
materials over the entire life cycle of its vehicles right 
from the very beginning. With the fifth generation of 
BMW eDrive, the Group reached an important milestone 
during the year under report. A special feature of the 
electric motor, which is being installed in the BMW iX3 * 
for the first time (eDrive Gen5), has been designed so 
that it no longer requires the use of rare earth elements. 
For the fifth generation of its high-voltage storage system, 
the BMW Group obtains any critical raw materials it re-
quires from sources outside the known conflict regions. 
Cobalt that is bought in directly by BMW Group and 
made available to suppliers is sourced from Morocco and 
 Australia. The lithium used is also from Australia, where 
it is extracted by means of the so-called hard rock mining 
process. In addition, the BMW Group has successfully 
reduced the amount of cobalt required per kWh by two-
thirds through the further chemical development of its 
battery cells. 
  Purchasing and Supplier Network

The use of renewable energy in production process-
es – for example in the manufacture of energy-intensive 
materials such as carbon fibre reinforced plastic – or the 
choice of green electricity in the use phase – also help 
reduce the carbon footprint of the BMW Group’s vehicles. 
Further information on how efficiently and therefore eco-
nomically and sparingly the BMW Group uses resources 
in its production processes is provided in the section 

 Resource Consumption and Resource Efficiency.

With its project i, the BMW Group was among the 
first manufacturers to pursue the aim of reducing carbon 

The BMW Group has entered into a contractual agree-
ment with its battery cell manufacturers to ensure that 
they only use green electricity when producing the fifth 

generation of battery cells. In a joint technology consor-
tium with battery manufacturer Northvolt, the Group 
also plans to configure the value chain for battery cells 
in Europe with sustainability as its top priority. 

Other approaches to handling resources in a respon-
sible, sustainable manner include the reuse of batteries, 
such as in stationary storage systems with the aim of 
improving the use of renewable energy and promoting 
recycling. In collaboration with the recycling specialist 
Duesenfeld, for example, the BMW Group has developed 
the prototype of a process that enables 96 % of the mate-
rial from battery cells to be recovered for recycling. Fur-
thermore, the option exists for all customers whose ve-
hicle contains a high-voltage battery for the BMW Group 
to take the battery back free of charge. This also applies 
to regions where there is no legal obligation to do so. 

The BMW Group manages the implementation of its 
targets and assesses progress in vehicle development via 
its Life Cycle Assessment in accordance with the ISO 
14040 / 44 standard. The Group utilises these assessments 
to record the environmental impacts occurring over the 
life cycle of a vehicle right from the development stage 
and make comparisons with predecessor models. Howev-
er, the BMW Group’s approach goes one step further: it 
breaks down the targets by product and then implements 
the appropriate measures. These include, for example, 
the use of green electricity for energy-intensive processes 
in the supply chain or in production as well as the use of 
recycled materials such as aluminium or plastics instead 
of deploying primary resources. 

*  See 

  Fuel Consumption and CO2 Emissions Information. 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
 
Combined Management Report

Products and Services

 The BMW Group aims to ensure that electric and 
electrified vehicles make an effective contribution to 
climate protection not only in the use phase, but also in 
their overall footprint, including the supply chain. As 
an example, the environmental report of the  BMW iX3 * 
indicates that the greenhouse gas potential values of an 
all-electric vehicle are around 30 % lower than those of 
a conventional reference vehicle with a diesel drivetrain 
when the calculation is based on standard consumption 
and the European electricity mix. Furthermore, when 
the electricity used for charging is generated from re-
newable energy sources, the emissions values are around 
60 % lower.

 Competence centre for battery cells 

In  2019,  the  BMW  Group  began  pooling  its  wealth  of  experi-
ence  and  comprehensive  knowledge  of  battery  cell technology 
in a new competence centre based in Munich. With this strategy, 
the Group is pursuing the twin aims of further improving its bat-
tery cell technology and fully penetrating production processes. 
Based on the battery technology currently in use, the BMW Group 
intends to substantially increase the potential range of its electri-
fied vehicles by 2030 by continuing to develop its battery cells, 
modules  and  systems.  Looking  to  the  future,  the  focus  will  be 
even more on cutting battery system costs in order to make elec-
tric mobility more profitable.

The  competence  centre  replicates the  entire  value  chain  of  bat-
tery cell technology, from research and development to the struc-
ture and the design of the battery cell to the production of the first 
prototypes. It takes the complete life cycle of a battery cell into ac-
count, from purchasing the raw materials to recycling. Particularly 
in view of the high-voltage batteries needed to power electrified ve-
hicles, which can entail the use of critical raw materials, the circu-
lar economy has a decisive role to play. 
 Production, Purchasing 
and Supplier Network 

83

EXPANDING THE CHARGING INFRASTRUCTURE AND 
ENABLING FASTER CHARGING

A comprehensive charging infrastructure is a prereq-
uisite for the rapid, widespread deployment of electric 
mobility. In order to promote this project, between 2015 
and 2020 the BMW Group committed itself to improving 
the charging infrastructure in a total of over 50 projects 
and has initiated the installation of some 15,000 opera-
tional charging points. The BMW Group plans to install a 
total of 4,100 charging points at BMW Group properties 
in Germany by the end of 2021. Half of these charging 
points will be made accessible for public use. Together 
with other car manufacturers, charging station providers, 
charging service providers and energy suppliers, the 
BMW Group is working on simplifying not only access 
to charging stations, but also the charging process itself. 

At  European  level,  in  close  collaboration  with  the 
IONITY joint venture, the BMW Group is in the process 
of building a high-performance fast-charging network com-
prising some 400 charging stations along major transport 
routes by 2021. Fast-charging stations make charging up to 
seven times faster than standard 50 kW stations. Originally 
planned for completion by 2020, due to the coronavirus 
pandemic and the lack of approvals, the BMW Group and 
its partners were compelled to postpone the construction of 
certain stations until 2021. To date, 325 of the 400 planned 
IONITY fast-charging stations have been installed and a 
further 44 are currently under construction. At powerful 
and increasingly widespread DC fast-charging points 
with outputs of at least 150 kW, the BMW iX3 * can be 
charged to achieve a range of over 100 km (WLTP) in 
around ten minutes. 

The BMW Group intends to offer electric mobility to 
both private customers and companies operating entire 
fleets and is additionally expanding the BMW Charging 
product and service portfolio for trendsetting charging 
solutions at home, on the road and at the workplace. 
Charging infrastructure for both private and commercial 
purposes is a key prerequisite for the further expansion 
of electric mobility. The BMW Group welcomes the sup-
port provided by government premiums, as charging 
options both at home and at the workplace make a key 
contribution to the overall infrastructure from the point 
of view of customers. 

GREEN ELECTRICITY FOR E-MOBILITY

During  the  year  under  report,  the  BMW  Group 
continued to pursue and expand its approaches to the 
holistic ecological optimisation of electric mobility both 
at home and on the road. In addition to BMW Charging 
and MINI Charging, the Group already offers electricity 
from renewable sources as well as attractive solar power 
packages for homes in both Germany and Austria. As 
part of its strategic investment in the IONITY joint ven-
ture, the BMW Group is preparing to broaden its range 
of services to enter other markets as well as the field of 
public charging. 

*  See 

  Fuel Consumption and CO2 Emissions Information. 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
 
Combined Management Report

Products and Services

84

IMPROVING POLITICAL CONDITIONS 

MOBILITY PATTERNS

MAKING URBAN MOBILITY SUSTAINABLE WITH 
 SERVICES

 In the BMW Group’s view, there is still a need for 
political support for electric mobility in many countries 
and cities. In the EU, for example, market research points 
to the close correlation between the density of charging 
infrastructure and the sale of electrified vehicles. This 
correlation applies not only at member state level, but 
also  in  a  regional  comparison.  The  BMW  Group  is 
therefore seeking dialogue with policymakers to call for 
measures to be taken to improve consistency on both 
the supply and the demand sides. In concrete terms, 
the aim is to improve framework conditions with the 
aim of stimulating demand for electrified vehicles not 
only nationally, but also at local level. The focus here is 
on increasing the number of public charging points and 
offering usage incentives in everyday life, such as park-
ing spaces reserved for electric vehicles or discounts on 
parking fees. In Germany, for example, only a few cities 
have so far taken advantage of the funding opportunities 
offered by the Electric Mobility Act.

To advocate for improved conditions, the BMW Group 
is involved, for example, in the National Platform for the 
Future of Mobility (NPM), in the European initiative EIT 
Urban Mobility and within the framework of the World 
Economic Forum. Furthermore, the BMW Group is in 
dialogue with think tanks such as Agora Verkehrswende 
and is a member of the International Consultative Com-
mittee of China EV 100 as well as at VELOZ, a non-profit 
organisation dedicated to promoting electric mobility in 
the US state of California.

The BMW Group wants to make mobility more sus-
tainable and more convenient to use. In recent years, 
numerous urban mobility offers have been developed 
and introduced in cooperation with selected towns and 
cities. The BMW Group therefore sees its 2020 target 
of providing sustainable support for changing mobility 
behaviour by offering integrated mobility services in 
selected metropolitan regions as having been met.

Moreover, the Group continues to work together with 
its subsidiaries and in dialogue with the respective cities 
to find solutions to the increasing density of road traffic 
and the corresponding rise in noise levels, air pollution 
and land use. The BMW Group is also meeting these 
challenges by developing connected vehicles. In view of 
the growing trend towards vehicle electrification, the 
Group is therefore making a significant contribution in 
particular to providing eco-friendlier modes of transport 
as well as promoting the better use of space in urban 
areas.

The BMW Group is currently working together with 
three  German  cities  to  improve  the  traffic  situation 
and explore new mobility solutions. The New Mobility 
Berlin project aims to improve the quality of life within 
the city. For this reason, the BMW Group is develop-
ing tailor-made multimodal solutions, i. e. approaches 
that incorporate the entire range of transport modes. 
In selected districts of the city, via its subsidiaries, the 
BMW  Group  offers  shared  fleets  of  rental  cars  and 
e-scooters as an alternative to privately used vehicles. 
The strategy is intended to encourage better use of the 
road space occupied by rarely used private vehicles for 
other purposes going forward.

At  the  same  time,  the  BMW  Group  has  reached 
agreements with the cities of Munich and Hamburg, 
where it has carried out the first pilot projects for making 
city centres more pleasant to live in. Specific examples of 
the development of new, sustainable mobility options in-
clude the City2Share research project, which focuses on 
measures to reduce traffic in project districts in Munich 
and Hamburg, and the “umparken Schwabing-West” pro-
ject, in which the BMW Group is working to transform 
public space and enable it to be used more appropriately 
by offering mobility packages for local residents. 

The BMW Group is also involved in various urban 
platforms via which municipalities exchange information 
and collaborate on projects, including the 
 Urban  Mobility 
Platform  in  Germany  and  the  international 
 EIT  Urban 
 Mobility Platform of the European Institute of Innovation and 
 Technology. 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

Products and Services

85

 Via its subsidiaries, the BMW Group promotes 
innovative service offerings in the fields of car sharing, 
driving services, parking and vehicle charging as well as 
multimodal transport. In 2019, the BMW Group there-
fore merged its own mobility services in a joint venture 
with those of Daimler Mobility Services GmbH to create 
the YOUR NOW service. The common goal of the two 
companies is to expand the use of on-demand mobility 
and offer new solutions for cities and municipalities 
looking to make road use more efficient and sustaina-
ble. In this context, the market development and the 
political-regulatory framework conditions in the cities are 
continuously being examined and the range of services 
further developed in collaboration with strategic partners.

The  BMW  Group  has  expanded  its  car-sharing 
service offering (SHARE NOW) to include a long-term 
rental of up to 30 days. It also continued to develop 
FREE  NOW  into  a  multimodal  mobility  platform  by 
adding e-bikes and e-scooters. In 2020, FREE NOW had 
46 million registered customers and offers ride services 
in 17 countries and 153 cities. In the year under report, 
around 2.9 million customers used the SHARE NOW 
car-sharing services, which are available in 16 cities and 
eight countries. The car-sharing fleet currently compris-
es around 9,500 vehicles, almost one-quarter of which 
are electrically powered. In 2020, the number of trips 
decreased due to the coronavirus pandemic.

The CHARGE NOW vehicle charging service cur-
rently provides access to around 246,000 public charging 
points operated by various providers in 32 countries. In 
addition to its CHARGE NOW services, the BMW Group 
is working with partners in other markets to provide cus-
tomers with broad access to charging points. The PARK 
NOW digital parking service enabled around 45 million 

customers in around 1,200 cities to pay more quickly and 
easily for parking spaces on a contactless basis. However, 
PARK NOW’s business performance was also impacted 
by the coronavirus pandemic in 2020.

The BMW Group and its subsidiaries are working 
continuously on intelligently interconnecting vehicles, 
infrastructure and mobility services. The aim here is to 
make better use of the limited parking space available 
and reduce traffic congestion. The BMW Group is fully 
committed to complying with statutory limits for air 
quality, noise levels and carbon emissions as well as to 
restoring the quality of life for the residents of urban are-
as. For these reasons, the BMW Group intends to further 
intensify its dialogue with towns and cities and make an 
active contribution to the discussion on more sustainable 
mobility options as well as tailored traffic management 
measures. The Group also intends to transfer the results 
achieved in individual cities to other areas and adapt 
them on an international basis. 

FURTHER DEVELOPING AUTOMATED DRIVING

Automated functions and digitally connected vehicles 
can help reduce traffic congestion, minimise the risk of 
accidents and cut emissions levels. These technologies are 
therefore making a direct contribution to improving the 
quality of life in cities, and electric mobility in particular 
is becoming more and more popular at the same time. 

The  latest  BMW  models  are  equipped  with 
 state-of-the-art driver assistance systems. In 2021, the 
BMW Group is taking automated driving a decisive step 

further with the development of the BMW iX*. It will be 
the first BMW Group vehicle to offer both automated 
driving and parking functions via a new modular tech-
nology system. The BMW Group sees considerable po-
tential in automated driving and will continue to develop 
this field intensively over the next few years. 

 Employee mobility 

As the largest single employer in the Munich metropolitan region, 
the BMW Group has a special role to play in its hometown location 
and the surrounding urban areas by actively helping to reduce en-
vironmental pollution. The Group is planning to have one of the 
largest company charging networks in place by mid-2021, there-
by helping to increase the popularity of electric mobility and re-
duce carbon dioxide as well as other pollutant emissions. 

The  BMW  Group  provides  incentives  for  its  employees  to  use 
public transport, including benefits such as a discounted month-
ly ticket within the Munich city area. Around 14,000 employees 
have chosen this option. The Group also operates a long-estab-
lished shuttle bus service between its locations. It also provides 
its staff with rental bicycles and scooters for commuting. Last but 
not least, as a good example, with its BMW LeaseRad offer, the 
Group  is  actively  supporting the  growing  number  of  employees 
who choose to ride to work by bicycle and also encourages travel-
ling by bicycle and scooter in general. 

*  See 

  Fuel Consumption and CO2 Emissions Information. 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

Products and Services

 The BMW Group is also leveraging vehicle con-
nectivity with its new eDrive Zones technology, which 
automatically switches plug-in hybrids to fully electric 
driving mode when entering an environmental zone. 
The innovation makes it easier for customers to drive 
emissions-free to the greatest extent possible. The Group 
has already introduced this function in over 80 European 
cities. 

The safety of its automated systems is a top priority 
for the BMW Group. For that reason, in 2019 it partnered 
with 11 leading companies in the field of automated 
driving to produce a Safety First for Automated Driving 
(SaFAD)  white  paper  that  highlights  the  importance 
of safety by design in the development of an industry 
standard for automated driving. The BMW Group sees 
this white paper as an important step towards defining 
industry-wide standards from the testing stage to the 
approval of highly and fully automated driving functions.

Since  2018,  BMW  assistance  systems  have  been 
utilising artificial intelligence to anticipate typically dan-
gerous situations such as the swerving of other vehicles 
in order to react in good time. The BMW Group can 
further improve the performance of artificial intelligence 
in this field by analysing anonymised data taken from 
real-life activities. Therefore, as a founding member of 
the European Gaia-X project, it is committed to devel-
oping standards for organising data and cloud-based 
measures with the aim of making traffic management 
more efficient.

In order to incorporate highly mature new technolo-
gies in series production and further raise its level of ex-
pertise in the field of automated driving, the BMW Group 
is building a new development and testing ground in the 

86

Czech Republic, which is scheduled for completion in 
2022. Complex everyday automated driving conditions 
can then be tested at the new facility in a realistic but 
controlled environment.

independently which of their vehicle data are transmitted 
to other market participants for a specific purpose. The 
BMW Group has also been offering this service in the 
USA since June 2020. 

 Design and Product Safety

PREVENTIVELY PROTECTING CUSTOMER DATA

IDENTIFYING POTENTIAL FOR SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY 
AT AN EARLY STAGE

The protection of data and information within the 
BMW Group is based on the relevant laws and standards, 
particularly in accordance with the EU General Data Pro-
tection Regulation and the ISO / IEC 27001 international 
security standard. The personal data of customers is 
only collected, processed or utilised to the extent legally 
permitted and with the consent of the person in ques-
tion. Any complaints can be reported to the Customer 
Interaction Centre, the Data Protection Officer or via the 
SpeakUP Line and will be dealt with promptly. 

In order to protect its digital systems from tampering, 
the BMW Group systematically searches for possible 
weak points with a view to closing any potential gaps in 
good time before approving the respective component. 
The Group continuously translates any new insights into 
binding standards. Clear standards regarding data and 
information protection also apply to any collaborations 
and partner relationships.

With BMW CarData, the BMW Group introduced 
a  secure,  data-protection-compliant  and  transparent 
service for the non-discriminatory sharing of vehicle 
data, initially in Germany in 2017 and since 2018 across 
Europe. BMW CarData provides BMW Group customers 
with complete data sovereignty. Customers can decide 

The BMW Group has combined the topics of sustain-
ability and mobility in its corporate strategy. It analyses 
the opportunities and challenges arising from changes 
in mobility demand that result from new types of mo-
bility on offer or regulatory framework conditions. The 
BMW Group then develops premises for its contribution 
to sustainable mobility on this basis. In corporate depart-
ments for both strategy and communication, the Group 
has established dedicated teams in a global network and 
provided them with funding to jointly define sustainabil-
ity goals and monitor the extent to which they are being 
achieved. The BMW Group views developments in its 
main markets in a differentiated manner and engages in 
collaborative research projects in order to understand the 
changes, impacts and needs of urban mobility behaviour 
worldwide at an early stage. The Group is also in regular 
dialogue with its international stakeholders. One of the 
aims of these established events is to gain a better un-
derstanding of people’s mobility needs worldwide and 
develop new products and services accordingly. 
  Dialogue 
with Stakeholders 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Production,  Purchasing and  Supplier Network

87

PRODUCTION, 
 PURCHASING AND 
 SUPPLIER NETWORK

PROMISED

We aim to reduce  
CO2 EMISSIONS  
per vehicle produced.

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Production,  Purchasing and  Supplier Network

88

DELIVERED

Since 2020, the electricity  

for all BMW Group plants  

has been sourced from  
100 % RENEWABLE  
ENERGIES.

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Production,  Purchasing and  Supplier Network

89

“Our  expertise  in  integrating  new 
technologies  and  products  into  our 
production system is unique worldwide. 
Through innovation and digitalisation, we 
are setting new benchmarks in terms of 
efficiency and sustainability. This leads 
into a new era of automotive production: 
The next level of our BMW Group pro-
duction system will be lean, green and 
digital.”

Dr.-Ing. Andreas Wendt  
Member of the Board of Management  
of BMW AG,  
Purchasing and Supplier Network

“A company is much more than just 
the sum of its individual employees. It is 
about sharing the same goals, working 
together as partners and taking responsi-
bility beyond one’s own area. This applies 
to us at the BMW Group, as well as in 
cooperation with our suppliers.”

Dr. Milan Nedeljković 
Member of the  
Board of Management  
of BMW AG, Production

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Production,  Purchasing and  Supplier Network

90

We know where  
TECHNOLOGY can still 
 leverage POTENTIAL.  
That’s why I’m OPTIMISTIC 

we can reach the high goals  

we set  ourselves.

MR WITSCHNIG, ENVIRON-
MENTAL PROTECTION IN 
PRODUCTION. WHAT DOES 
THAT MEAN EXACTLY?

Our  goal  is  clean  production.  That 
means  minimising  our  environmental 
impact in a targeted manner – with regard 
to water, waste, energy, solvents, etc. We 
have achieved a great deal in recent years – 
for  instance,  reducing  the  amount  of 
waste by 80 %. And all BMW Group plants 
worldwide have obtained their electricity 
from renewable energies since 2020.

THE GOAL IS TO REDUCE 
CO2 EMISSIONS IN PRO-
DUCTION BY ANOTHER 80 % 
BY 2030. HOW WILL YOU 
DO THAT?

We have already achieved a great deal 
when it comes to energy  efficiency and 
sourcing green power. And we know where 
technology can still leverage potential. Our 
next big topic will be gas consumption. 

SUPPLY CHAIN CO2 EMIS-
SIONS ARE ALSO MEANT TO 
BE REDUCED BY 2030.  
MS PEREZ SZMAK, WHY BY 
ONLY 20 %?

Without  corrective  measures,  ex-
panding electromobility would increase 
CO₂ emissions  in  the  supplier  network 
by at least a third. We don’t just want to 
stop this increase; we want to reverse it. 
So, actually, a reduction of at least 20 % is 
a very ambitious goal.

Renewable  energies  will  play  a  big 
part in this. A second topic is the reuse 
of materials – in other words, a circular 
economy. The best part is: Our suppliers 
are fully on board with this. 

Further information is available at: 

 report.bmwgroup.com

Jury Witschnig is responsible  
for environmental protection in 
production. Patricia Perez Szmak 
heads the project dedicated to 
sustainability in the supply chain.

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

Production,  Purchasing and  Supplier Network

91

The Group’s Dingolfing plant has assumed a lead-
ing role as a competence centre for e-drive systems in 
the  production  of  electric  drivetrain  components.  It 
produces battery modules, high-voltage batteries and 
fifth-generation electric motors for the BMW Group’s 
electrified  vehicles.  E-motors  are  also  manufactured 
at the Landshut plant. Production facilities for battery 
components and high-voltage batteries are also being 
established at the Group’s Leipzig and Regensburg sites. 
Currently, high-voltage batteries are manufactured at 
three BMW Group plants, i. e. Dingolfing (Germany), 
Spartanburg (USA) and Shenyang (China). In Thailand, 
the  BMW  Group  collaborates  closely  with  a  partner 
that manufactures high-voltage batteries for electrified 
vehicles that are produced locally. By 2024, the produc-
tion of internal combustion engines in Europe will be 
concentrated at BMW Group locations in Steyr (Austria) 
and Hams Hall (UK). 

PRODUCTION NETWORK

SYSTEMATIC TRANSFORMATION TOWARDS ELECTRIC 
MOBILITY

The BMW Group’s production system is efficient and 
flexible. It provides customers with a large number of 
customisation options when choosing their own vehicle. 
Moreover, during the reporting period the BMW Group’s 
global production system once again demonstrated its 
ability to respond to highly volatile market developments, 
even under the demanding conditions of the 2020 pan-
demic year.

The production network leverages innovative technol-
ogies from the fields of digitalisation and Industry 4.0, 
including applications from the worlds of virtual reality, 
artificial intelligence, smart logistics and 3D printing.  

2022

every production plant in Germany  
will be manufacturing at least one  
fully electric model

The BMW Group continues to accelerate towards 
electric  mobility  and  is  bolstering  its  international 
production network for the increased manufacturing of 
electrified vehicles. By the end of 2022, every production 
plant in Germany should have the capacity to produce at 
least one fully electric vehicle model. The BMW Group’s 
production system is capable of manufacturing both con-
ventional internal combustion and electrically powered 
vehicles on a single line, enabling it to respond flexibly 
to changing customer requirements for various drivetrain 
systems. In 2020, the Group simultaneously manufac-
tured electrified models at 13 locations in its global pro-
duction network. By the middle of the current decade 
it will be deploying a new cluster architecture geared to 
fully electric drivetrains. Initially, the technology will be 
launched at the future Debrecen plant in Hungary and 
then transferred to the global production network in a 
step-by-step process. 

Electrification is also becoming increasingly impor-
tant in terms of drivetrain production. In the year under 
report, the BMW Group announced the construction of 
a pilot plant for the near-series production of battery cell 
prototypes. The aim is to further optimise the produc-
tion of battery cells in terms of quality, performance and 
costs. The Battery Cell Competence Centre in Munich 
already covers the entire value chain in terms of battery 
cell technology – from research and development to the 
structure and design of the battery cell as well as its 
manufacturability.

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

Production,  Purchasing and  Supplier Network

PRODUCTION SITES IN KEY MARKETS

Locations

BMW GROUP PLANTS

The BMW Group’s production network comprises 
31 locations in 15 countries. The Group aims to strike a 
balance between production and deliveries in the various 
regions of the world. 20 of the 31 sites are BMW Group 
plants. Three sites belong to the BMW Brilliance Au-
tomotive joint venture in Shenyang (China), which is 
currently being further enlarged. Eight production sites 
are operated by partners or contract manufacturers. The 
same standards of quality, safety and sustainability ap-
ply at all locations within the BMW Group’s production 
network worldwide.

Araquari

Berlin

Chennai

Dingolfing

Eisenach

Hams Hall

Landshut

Leipzig

Manaus

Munich

Oxford

Rayong

Regensburg

Rosslyn

San Luis Potosí

Spartanburg

Steyr

Swindon

Wackersdorf

92

Products

BMW 3 Series, BMW X1, BMW X3, BMW X4, BMW X5

BMW motorcycles, car brake discs

BMW 2 Series, BMW 3 Series, BMW 5 Series, BMW 6 Series, BMW 7 Series 
BMW X1, BMW X3, BMW X4, BMW X5, BMW X7, MINI Countryman

BMW 3 Series, BMW 4 Series, BMW 5 Series, BMW 6 Series,  
BMW 7 Series, BMW 8 Series, BMW M  
Chassis and drivetrain components, 
 e-motors, high-voltage batteries, battery components 
 Rolls-Royce bodywork, pressed parts

Country

Brazil

Germany

India

Germany

Germany

Toolmaking, vehicle components, aluminium tanks for BMW Motorrad

United Kingdom

Petrol engines, core engine parts

Germany

Germany

Brazil

Germany

United Kingdom

Thailand

Germany

South Africa

Mexico

USA

Austria

United Kingdom

Germany

Vehicle and engine components, e-motors and special-purpose motors

BMW 1 Series, BMW 2 Series, BMW i, BMW M

Motorcycles

BMW 3 Series, BMW 4 Series, BMW M 
Petrol and diesel engines, high-performance engines for M models 
Core engine parts

MINI, MINI Clubman, MINI Cooper SE  *

BMW 2 Series, BMW 3 Series, BMW 5 Series, BMW 7 Series 
BMW X1, BMW X3, BMW X5, BMW X7 
Motorcycles

BMW 1 Series, BMW 2 Series, BMW 4 Series 
BMW X1, BMW X2, BMW M

BMW X3

BMW 3 Series

BMW X3, BMW X4, BMW X5, BMW X6, BMW X7, BMW M, 
High-voltage batteries

Petrol and diesel engines 
Core engine parts 
High-performance engines for M models

Pressed parts and bodywork components

Distribution centre for parts and components 
Cockpit assembly 
Processing of carbon fibre components 

Rolls-Royce Manufacturing Plant Goodwood

United Kingdom

Rolls-Royce Phantom , Ghost, Wraith, Dawn, Cullinan*

*  See 

  Fuel Consumption and CO2 Emissions Information. 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
93

Products

BMW 5 Series
 BMW X3 
BMW iX3 *

BMW 1 Series, BMW 2 Series, BMW 3 Series
 BMW X1, BMW X2

Petrol engines, high-voltage batteries, battery components,  
production of core engine parts

Combined Management Report

Production,  Purchasing and  Supplier Network

Locations

JOINT VENTURE 
BMW BRILLIANCE AUTOMOTIVE HOLDINGS LTD.

Dadong (Shenyang)

Tiexi (Shenyang)

Tiexi (Shenyang)

*  See 

  Fuel Consumption and CO2 Emissions Information.

Country

China

China

China

The BMW Group’s four automotive partner plants in 
Jakarta (Indonesia), Cairo (Egypt), Kaliningrad (Russia) 
and Kulim (Malaysia) primarily serve their respective 
regional markets and produce BMW and MINI brand 
models.

The BMW Group also awards contracts to external 
partners for the production of specific types of vehicle 
as well as motorcycles. During the period under report, 
Magna Steyr Fahrzeugtechnik produced the BMW 5 Se-
ries  Sedan  and  the  BMW  Z4  in  Graz  (Austria).  VDL 
Nedcar manufactured the MINI Convertible and MINI 
Countryman models as well as the BMW X1 at its produc-
tion plant in Born (the Netherlands). In addition, BMW 
motorcycles are produced at the TVS Motor Company in 
Hosur (India) as well as at the Loncin Motor Company 
in Chongqing (China).

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

Production,  Purchasing and  Supplier Network

94

HIGH PRODUCTION VOLUME DESPITE PANDEMIC 

VEHICLE PRODUCTION OF THE BMW GROUP BY PLANT

The coronavirus pandemic caused demand on in-
ternational automotive markets to fall, in some cases 
substantially, especially in the first six months of the 
year. Production volumes were adjusted accordingly and, 
at 2,255,637 ¹ BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce brand auto-
mobiles, were below the level recorded one year earlier 
(2019: 2,564,025 ¹ units; – 12.0 %). The figure comprised 
1,980,740 ¹ BMW (2019: 2,205,841 ¹ units; – 10.2 %), 271,121 
MINI (2019: 352,729 units; – 23.1 %) and 3,776 Rolls-Royce 
brand vehicles (2019: 5,455 units; – 30.8 %).

1  Includes vehicles produced by the BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd.,  
Shenyang joint venture (2020: 602,935 units; 2019: 536,509 units).

2  Joint Venture BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd., Shenyang.
3  Contract production.

in units

Spartanburg

Dingolfing

Regensburg

Leipzig

Oxford

Munich

Rosslyn

Rayong

Chennai

Araquari

Goodwood

San Luis Potosí 

Tiexi (BBA) 2

Dadong (BBA) 2

Born (VDL Nedcar) 3

Graz (Magna Steyr) 3

Partner plants

Total

2020

2019

Change in %

361,365

231,970

199,991

200,968

175,984

143,758

50,760

25,752

6,228

8,400

3,776

56,081

311,137

291,798

125,666

35,747

26,256

411,620

284,907

255,804

230,284

222,340

221,077

69,463

23,700

8,976

8,208

5,455

25,538

250,241

286,268

174,097

52,231

33,816

2,255,637

2,564,025

– 12.2 %

– 18.6 %

– 21.8 %

– 12.7 %

– 20.8 %

– 35.0 %

– 26.9 %

8.7 %

– 30.6 %

2.3 %

– 30.8 %

119.6 %

24.3 %

1.9 %

– 27.8 %

– 31.6 %

– 22.4 %

– 12.0 %

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

Production,  Purchasing and  Supplier Network

RESOURCE CONSUMPTION 
AND RESOURCE EFFICIENCY

 – 78 %

CO2 emissions per vehicle  
since 2006 

 The reduction of carbon emissions and the respon-
sible use of resources are important cornerstones of the 
BMW Group’s strategy. Its own plants and locations 
have a direct influence on both carbon emissions levels 
and resource consumption. The BMW Group has been 
committed to resource-efficient production at its plants 
for many years. This includes checking and monitoring 
the consumption of resources across the BMW Group’s 
production network. The principle of continuous im-
provement applies throughout the BMW Group. It in-
vests in efficient technologies and also continually seeks 
to optimise its existing processes and procedures. This 
principle has been highly successful, as the Group clearly 
surpassed its target of reducing resource consumption 
per vehicle produced by an average of 45 % by 2020 com-
pared to 2006 , achieving an overall reduction of 56.7 %. 
Apart from continuously reducing energy consumption 
in general, the BMW Group is now focusing on convert-
ing its electricity supply to renewable energy sources. 
Any remaining production-related emissions that cannot 
yet be avoided will be offset from 2021 onwards. 

NEW PRODUCTION TARGETS UP TO 2030 

 The biggest lever for reducing the BMW Group’s 
Scope  1  and  Scope  2  emissions  is  at  its  production 
locations, which account for around 90 % of these emis-
sions. The BMW Group has had considerable success 
in this area and repeatedly set new standards in terms 
of sustainable production methods. Between 2006 and 
2020,  carbon  emissions  per  vehicle  produced  fell  by 
around 78 % by continually improving energy efficiency, 
generating renewable electricity in-house and entering 
into direct supply contracts for green power (including 
guarantees of origin). 
 Nevertheless, the BMW Group 
has already set itself the next target: compared to 2019, 
these emissions levels are to be reduced by a further 
80 % per vehicle by 2030. As from 2021, the Group will 
make the remaining carbon emissions from Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 completely carbon- neutral by using voluntary 
offset certificates.

95

CARBON FOOTPRINT IN PRODUCTION REDUCED AGAIN 

Carbon  emissions  per  vehicle  produced  fell  by 
around 23 % to 0.23 t compared with the previous year. 
The reduction is a result of completely switching the 
BMW Group’s production network to green electricity 
generated from renewable sources. The BMW Group also 
managed to reduce the absolute level of carbon emissions 
generated by the production network to 486,630 t (2019: 
697,025 t). 

 GRI 305-4

CO2 EMISSIONS PER VEHICLE PRODUCED ¹, ²

in t

1.0

0.5

0

0.54

0.41

0.40

0.30

0.23

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

  GRI 305-4, 305-5

1  Efficiency indicator calculated from Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2 emissions (market-based method according 
to GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance. Other climate-impacting gases than CO2 not included) from vehicle 
production, without motorcycles, minus CHP losses divided by the total number of vehicles produced, incl. 
BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. joint  venture, Shenyang / CN, not including the vehicles from the Magna 
Steyr and Nedcar contract production plants.

2  The figures for 2016 to 2018 were examined by the external auditor on the basis of a limited assurance 

engagement.

BMW GroupReport 2020 
 
Combined Management Report

Production,  Purchasing and  Supplier Network

96

 The absolute volume of carbon emissions fell by 
13 % to around 66 million tonnes during the year under 
report. The main drivers were the reduction in fleet carbon 
emissions worldwide and the lower production volume due 
to the coronavirus pandemic. 
 GRI 302-2, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 
305-4, 305-5

 BMW GROUP CO2 FOOTPRINT  

(CONDENSED VERSION) ¹ 

in t CO₂ / CO₂e

2020

2019

TOTAL EMISSIONS 2

65,828,005

75,987,119

MINIMISING RESOURCE CONSUMPTION AND OTHER 
EMISSONS

The BMW Group wants to lead the way by keeping 
resource consumption in its production processes to an 
absolute minimum. Apart from carbon emissions, further 
decisive factors are energy and water consumption, the 
amount of waste sent for disposal and the use of solvents. 
In recent years, the BMW Group has made a great deal 
of progress in terms of resource consumption. Between 
2006 and 2020, the BMW Group reduced its average re-
source consumption and emissions generated per vehicle 
by 56.7 %, an improvement of 6.5 % year on year. 

The pandemic-related interruption of production at 
most BMW Group plants had a significant impact on 
energy  consumption  per  vehicle.  When  the  produc-
tion facilities were restarted, the same base load ³ and 
simultaneously lower production volumes resulted in 
an  overall  increase  in  energy  consumption  per  unit. 
Although the BMW Group’s energy consumption fell 
to 5,714,610 MWh (2019: 5,974,625 MWh) in absolute 
 Energy Consumption in Detail, 
terms  during  the  pandemic 
energy efficiency was negatively impacted by lower unit 
volumes and not least also by hygiene measures such 
as the requirement to increase the frequency of venti-
lation. The BMW Group’s specific energy consumption 
for vehicle production in 2020 therefore rose by 3.9 % 
to 2.12 MWh per vehicle produced compared to 2019. 

 GRI 302-1, 302-3, 302-4

Scope 1

Scope 2

Scope 3

642,885

642,259

84,257

302,574 

65,100,863

75,042,286

 IMPROVEMENT IN RESOURCE CONSUMPTION AND 
 EMISSIONS FROM VEHICLE PRODUCTION SINCE 2006

per vehicle produced

Average of the values 

Energy consumption

CO2 emissions 

Water consumption 

Process wastewater

Waste for disposal

Solvent emissions 

  GRI 302-3, 305-4 

– 56.7 %

– 38.0 %

– 78.1 %

– 31.0 %

– 42.7 %

– 82.4 %

– 67.7 %

1  The detailed version of the BMW Group carbon footprint can be found in the section on 

  BMW Group CO2 

Footprint. 

2  The emissions listed account for approximately 90 % of the BMW Group’s total Scope 1 to Scope 3 emissions. 

Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions exclude climate-impacting gases other than carbon dioxide.

3  The base load is the amount of power permanently required (e. g. standby consumption), regardless of how 
many vehicles are produced. The base load includes energy required for emergency and basic lighting, min-
imum ventilation or heating and air conditioning in standby mode.

 – 56.7 % 

Resource consumption and emissions 
from vehicle production since 2006 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
 
 
 
 
Combined Management Report

Production,  Purchasing and  Supplier Network

ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER VEHICLE PRODUCED ¹, ²

in MWh

3.0

1.5

0

  GRI 302-3, 302-4

2.21

2.17

2.12

2.04

2.12

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

 At 2.25 m³ per vehicle produced, specific water 
consumption dropped by 3 % compared to the previous 
year. 

 Water Consumption per Vehicle Produced 

The BMW Group continuously tries to further reduce 
energy and water consumption. It sees opportunities to 
save energy in particular by improving base load man-
agement, for example by reducing standby consumption 
during shift breaks. In order to reduce water consump-
tion, the BMW Group’s plants are further improving their 
circulation systems by means of wastewater treatment. 

 – 38 %

Energy consumption per vehicle  
produced since 2006 

Optimisation measures are, however, offset by the high-
er  consumption  required  to  cool  the  newly  installed 
combined heat and power plants. The BMW Group has 
investigated the use of water sources other than drinking 
water in a number of its plants in future. It focused on 
locations in dry climatic regions, such as the plant in San 
Luis Potosí (Mexico).

During the year under report, the volume of waste 
for disposal per vehicle produced decreased by 18.6 % to 
3.33 kg compared to 2019. The main reason for differ-
ences in the volume of waste for disposal is changes in 
the structure of the existing waste disposal companies 
at the BMW Group’s various locations. For example, in 
2020 the Shenyang plant in China began using house-
hold-type commercial waste to generate energy, a strategy 
also introduced at the Rosslyn plant in South Africa. 

 Waste for Disposal per Vehicle Produced

The BMW Group reduced its emissions of volatile 
organic compounds (VOC ³) per vehicle produced by 
4.7 % to 0.81 kg in the 2020 reporting period. This year-
on-year improvement is attributable to process optimi-
sations such as restricting the quantity of material used 
for cleaning work, the use of solvent-free cleaning agents, 
and the equipping of several new paint shops with ex-
tended thermal oxidisation facilities for base and clear 
coats, such as at the Munich, Dingolfing and Shenyang 
plants. 

 Solvent Emissions per Vehicle Produced 

 GRI 305-7

97

MONITORING RESOURCE CONSUMPTION

The monitoring of resource consumption is an in-
tegral part of the Group’s environmental management 
strategy in the global production network and is man-
aged by the Steering Committee of the BMW Group’s 
international environmental protection network. Each 
facility, building and space at each location is allocated to 
an internal operator. Within this area, the operator is not 
only responsible for the facilities and technical systems as 
well as the smooth running of processes and procedures, 
but also for their environmental impact. ⁴ 

An environmental management system in accord-
ance with ISO 14001 has been implemented at all 31 
BMW  Group  production  plants.  With  the  exception 
of the Manaus plant in Brazil (planned for 2021), all 
Group  sites  are  certified  according  to  this  standard. 
The five competence centres – emissions, water, waste, 
qualification and environmental management system – 
coordinate  the  BMW  Group’s  environmental  protec-
tion measures worldwide. Accordingly, any ecological 
improvements that have proven to be effective at one 
location are implemented at other locations to the extent 
possible. Ongoing further training and the exchange of 
information between employees are aimed at ensuring 
the transfer of knowledge. 

1  Efficiency indicator calculated from electricity, heat, natural gas and heating oil consumption from vehicle 
production ( without motorcycles) minus CHP losses, divided by the total number of vehicles produced, ex-
cluding  vehicles from the Magna Steyr and Nedcar contract production plants, plus energy consumption of the 
 engine plants and electric engines as well as battery production, divided by engine production in Hams Hall, 
Steyr, Munich and BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. in Shenyang.

2  The figures for 2016 to 2018 were examined by the external auditor on the basis of a limited assurance 

engagement.

3  VOC emissions (volatile organic compounds) are generated in particular during the painting process and 

can be reduced by deploying innovative painting technologies.

4  Each operator is required to describe the environmental impacts in the aspect register in accordance with 
the environmental management system and identify measures for improvement (e. g. long-term targets).

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

Production,  Purchasing and  Supplier Network

CIRCULAR ECONOMY MAXIMISES RESOURCE EFFICIENCY 
AND CONTRIBUTES TO CLIMATE PROTECTION

 The responsible use of resources plays a key role 
in the BMW Group’s business model. For example, if 
electric mobility is not only to be produced using pri-
mary materials in the long term, the underlying flows 
of resources need to undergo a sustainable transforma-
tion. The BMW Group intends to create high-quality 
secondary raw materials by promoting a greater degree 
of transparency in the recycling chain and tracking the 
actual further use of raw materials within the cycle. The 
Group wants to provide effective impetus for a circular 
economy that is viable in the long term by emphasising 
the importance of recycling valuable resources. At the 
same time, this strategy can significantly contribute to 
cutting carbon emissions (Scope 3 upstream), as the use 
of secondary raw materials can significantly reduce the 
size of the Group’s carbon footprint in its procurement 
and production processes – even down to as little as 
one-sixth, depending on the material. For this reason, 
the BMW Group has defined the circular economy as 
a strategic focus for the coming years. This includes its 
own internal initiatives as well as increasing its external 
commitment in dialogue with major stakeholders.

The economical use of resources is already a key re-
quirement in the design process and at the product devel-
opment stage and guarantees that BMW Group products 
are designed to ensure that as much raw material as 
possible remains within the circular economy. In 2020, 
a total of 99.1 % of the waste generated in production 
processes was either recycled or recovered. To the extent 
viable, i. e. depending on the waste disposal market and 
distances to the supplier, the cycles of materials are phys-
ically closed so that the resulting recyclates can be reused. 

End-of-life vehicles are therefore not considered as waste 
to be disposed of, but as a source of secondary raw ma-
terials. For this reason, the BMW Group promotes the 
return of end-of-life vehicles, components and materials 
to the raw materials cycle. Together with its sales organi-
sations in each country, the Group has already organised 
the taking back of end-of-life vehicles in 30 countries and 
offers environmentally friendly recycling services at more 
than 2,800 take-back centres. All vehicles brought onto 
the market since 2008 comply with global requirements 
for the recycling of end-of-life vehicles, components and 
materials. Already today, vehicles are required to be 95 % 
recyclable. 

 GRI 301-3 

By 2030, the BMW Group intends to further increase 
the percentage of recycled secondary raw materials in 
its vehicles while systematically developing the recy-
cling process at the same time. During the year under 
report, around 25 % of the steel and up to 20 % of the 
thermoplastics the Group used for vehicle manufacturing 
were derived from secondary sources. Up to 50 % of the 
aluminium the BMW Group uses to make its aluminium 
castings comes from secondary sources. 
 Average Distribu-
 GRI 301-2 
tion of Materials in BMW Group  Vehicles 

In its efforts to minimise waste, the BMW Group has 
developed recycling and reprocessing concepts that are 
adapted to the waste flows in its various plants, to region-
al legal requirements and to existing local waste disposal 
structures. Moreover, the Group intends to increase its 
level of expertise in the development and production of 
 Electric Mobility and create greater transpar-
battery cells 
ency regarding the whereabouts and recycling of end-of-
life vehicles and their resources. 

 Input / Output Assessment 

98

Through its own venture capital fund BMW i Ven-
tures, the BMW Group has invested in key technologies 
that can make a decisive contribution towards achieving 
its long-term vision of carbon neutrality. In 2020, for ex-
ample, BMW i Ventures invested in PureCycle, the first 
company in the world that can recycle polypropylene 
(an essential vehicle component) into a colourless and 
odourless native state. The BMW Group also invested 
in Prometheus Fuels, which has developed a technology 
that enables carbon-neutral synthetic fuels to be pro-
duced using green energy. 

 Logistics: freight carriers and carbon  emissions

In  close  cooperation  with  freight  carriers,  infrastructure  oper-
ators  and  commercial  vehicle  manufacturers,  the  BMW  Group 
is  developing  ecologically  sustainable  logistics  concepts.  The 
Green  Logistics  strategy  pursues  the  logistical  aim  of  achiev-
ing  climate-neutral  transportation,  thereby  contributing  to  the 
Group’s target of reducing carbon emissions in the supply chain 
by 20 % per vehicle by 2030 (base year 2019).

The carbon footprint and the use of carbon-efficient energy and 
modes  of  transport  is  a  decisive  criterion  for  the  BMW  Group 
when selecting freight carriers. Currently, more than half of the 
vehicles the  Group  produces  are transported  from  manufactur-
ing  plants  by  rail. When  supplying vehicles to the  Chinese  mar-
ket, the  BMW  Group  is  further  reducing  its  carbon  footprint  by 
using the railway lines along the Silk Road more intensively. In or-
der to reduce carbon emissions, some of the spare parts sent to 
China by airfreight are being increasingly dispatched by rail. For 
other overseas markets, the option to switch to intermodal air-sea 
transport has been tested. 

The  BMW  Group  is  increasingly  working  on  the  further  devel-
opment  and  piloting  as  well  as the  use  of  innovative technolo-
gies and already deploys battery- and gas-driven trucks to sup-
ply production facilities. In 2020, the BMW Group used the sea 
route from Belgium to Spain for vehicle production purposes. The 
use of biofuel from waste cooking oil led to a reduction in carbon 
emissions of 1,100 t. 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

Production,  Purchasing and  Supplier Network

RENEWABLE ENERGY

All  BMW  Group  locations  worldwide  as  well  as 
the  BMW  Brilliance  Automotive  (BBA)  joint  venture 
purchase 100 % green electricity, i. e. energy generated 
from renewable sources ¹. 
 With the aim of cutting the 
carbon emissions it generates in production processes 
by an additional 80 % per vehicle by 2030 (base year 
2019) in a further step, the BMW Group systematically 
continues to invest in optimising the energy efficiency 
of its global production network. The strategy includes 
the use of process heat in paint shops and data analysis 
to reduce the power consumption of its machinery to 
a minimum. Moreover, the BMW Group is further ex-
panding its own renewable power generation capacities 
at its various locations and increasing its energy storage 
capability. Leveraging these and other measures, the 
Group is making steady progress towards its long-term 
goal of becoming a leader in the use of renewable energy 
in production and value creation.

RENEWABLE ENERGY GENERATED IN-HOUSE

The BMW Group is reducing the size of its carbon 
footprint by generating its own electricity from renewable 
sources. It is utilising suitable technologies and develop-
ing solutions, depending on the location and the on-site 
conditions. The various options range from solar energy, 
for example in Mexico, to biogas in South Africa and 
wind power in Leipzig. As the BMW Group’s in-house 
production cannot fully cover its energy requirements, it 

99

buys in electricity from renewable sources – preferably 
locally. At the same time, in future the BMW Group 
intends to cover an increasing percentage of its elec-
tricity requirements through so-called power purchase 
agreements (PPAs), i. e. direct purchases from defined 
renewable energy generation facilities.

The Group is also working on solutions for storing 
renewable energy. For example, the storage farm at the 
BMW Group plant in Leipzig is equipped with high-volt-
age batteries from the BMW i3 ². The storage farm is in-
tegrated in the public power grid and provides control 
energy, which means the BMW Group is additionally 
helping to keep the public electricity grids stable.

CLEAR PROCESSES, ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

Independent  processes  have  been  established 
throughout the company for planning and implementing 
energy-related measures, which assign clear roles and 
responsibilities to the central strategy departments, the 
regional controlling offices and the plants at local level. 
The BMW Group also maintains a close dialogue with its 
energy suppliers in local markets, monitors regulatory 
developments and calls in external support as needed 
in order to respond to any changes in the percentage of 
renewable electricity supplied and the size of its carbon 
footprint. 

SHARE OF GREEN ELECTRICITY PURCHASED FROM 
THIRD  PARTIES 3, 4 

in %

100

50

0

100

87

81

79

63

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

100 %

Green electricity from  
renewable sources

1  Electricity from in-house renewable generation plants, direct supply contracts for green electricity and 

 certified proofs of origin.

  Fuel Consumption and CO2 Emissions Information.

2  See 
3  Calculated based on volumes of green electricity purchased (including via certificates of origin). Relates to 
all BMW Group production locations including the BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd., Shenyang, joint venture 
as well as motorcycle production and non-production areas.

4  The figures for 2016 to 2018 were examined by the external auditor on the basis of a limited assurance 

engagement.

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

Production,  Purchasing and  Supplier Network

PURCHASING AND  
SUPPLIER NETWORK

The BMW Group has laid the foundations for a stable 
and sustainable supply chain by organising its purchasing 
processes, managing international supply relationships 
with its partners and producing its own components.

The  Purchasing  and  Supplier  Network  therefore 
makes a significant contribution to the Group’s focus 
on the strategic markets of tomorrow, such as e-mobility 
and connectivity, and takes steps to ensure correspond-
ing production volumes in the supply chain. With the 
growing demand for electrified vehicles, the need for the 
respective components and parts in production is also in-
creasing. For battery cells in particular, the BMW Group 
is taking a variety of measures to accommodate this 
growth. For example, it will purchase the battery cells 
for its entire fifth generation from four different sup-
pliers, thus making itself less dependent on individual 
manufacturers. Flexibility in terms of volume is both a 
premise and a decisive criterion for selecting battery cell 
suppliers.

The Purchasing and Supplier Network has been op-
erating on a global basis for many years and adheres to 
the principle of procuring parts and components locally. 
The BMW Group has efficient teams on the ground in all 
of its key purchasing markets. Direct contact with these 
local markets has proved particularly effective during the 
coronavirus pandemic. Despite the high level of pressure 
on the supply chain, the BMW Group again managed to 
ensure a seamless supply of parts to its globally located 
production plants throughout the 2020 reporting year. 
The supply chain has thus demonstrated its stability and 
flexibility, despite the exceptional conditions witnessed 
in the 2020 pandemic year. Its many years of sustainable 
activity in the purchasing and supplier network have also 
helped to build this resilience.

Overall, the Purchasing and Supplier Network is 
responsible for the global procurement and quality as-
surance of production materials, raw materials, capital 
goods and services as well as the in-house manufacturing 
of vehicle components. External suppliers are rigorously 
selected on the basis of competitiveness in terms of op-
erational excellence, quality, innovation, flexibility, cost 
and sustainability.

100

 REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF BMW GROUP  

PURCHASE VOLUMES * 

in € billion

Asia / Australia  7.2 %

3.5 %  Other

Rest of Western 
Europe  14.3 %

North America  18.1 %

Total
€ 55.5 billion 

40.0 %  Germany

16.9 %  Eastern Europe

*  Direct and indirect purchasing; excluding Joint Venture BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd., Shenyang.

  GRI 102-9 

 60 %

of value added  
attributable to suppliers 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
 
Combined Management Report

Production,  Purchasing and  Supplier Network

101

SUSTAINABILITY INTEGRAL TO PURCHASING AND 
 SUPPLIER NETWORK

NEW TARGETS FOR DECARBONISATION IN THE 
 SUPPLIER NETWORK

MOTIVATING PARTNERS TO OPERATE SUSTAINABLY

 The BMW Group places great emphasis on cor-
porate due diligence. The Group already addressed this 
issue in 2008, defining and setting out comprehensive 
environmental and social standards for the awarding of 
contracts for the BMW i3. Since 2010, the BMW Group 
has required its partners and suppliers for BMW i models 
to  comply  with  human  rights  and  extended  environ-
mental and social standards, including environmental 
protection management systems. Since 2014, these speci-
fications have been mandatory for suppliers of all vehicle 
models. In 2019, this requirement was supplemented to 
include  occupational  health  and  safety  management 
systems wherever necessary. 

For many raw materials, the requirement to ensure 
that environmental standards and human rights have not 
been violated poses a particular challenge, for instance 
in the case of lithium and cobalt, both of which are key 
raw materials for manufacturing battery cells. 

By the year 2030, the BMW Group intends to have 
over seven million electrified vehicles on the road. This 
means that the average carbon emissions generated by 
the BMW Group’s supplier network (scope 3 upstream 
according to SBTI) will increase by more than one-third 
per vehicle by 2030 if no countermeasures are taken. 
Apart from the growing percentage of electrified models 
in the BMW Group’s product range, the reasons are, for 
example, the energy-intensive production of battery cells, 
the greater use of aluminium and increased localisation 
in China, where the proportion of green electricity in 
the energy mix is still relatively low. Nevertheless, the 
BMW Group has set itself the goal of not only halting this 
trend, but even reversing it and reducing carbon emis-
sions per vehicle in the supply chain ¹ by at least 20 % ² 
(base year 2019) by 2030. With this aim in mind, among 
other measures, since 2020 it has established the carbon 
footprint as a criterion for awarding contracts within the 
supply chain. 

The BMW Group is continuously expanding its sus-
tainability activities across the supplier network. The fo-
cus is essentially on three key issues: 1. Decarbonisation, 
2. Compliance with environmental and social standards, 
particularly human rights, and 3. The protection of nat-
ural resources. 

One of the biggest levers for promoting decarboni-
sation in the supply chain is the use of green electricity. 
For this reason, the BMW Group has agreed with the 
suppliers of the current fifth generation of battery cells 
to use only green electricity from renewable sources for 
production purposes. 

 Just as the BMW Group continuously implements 
optimisation and efficiency measures in its own pro-
duction environment, it is also actively committed to 
promoting decarbonisation measures within its supplier 
network. By participating in the CDP supply chain pro-
gramme, the Group motivates its suppliers to operate 
sustainably and, for example, utilise renewable energy 
in their production activities. The core of the programme 
consists of annual reporting that takes a multitude of 
climate-related aspects into account, including specific 
measures to reduce carbon emissions or increase the per-
centage of renewable energy deployed. The BMW Group 
strongly encourages its suppliers to set targets in line 
with the Paris Climate Agreement and thereby contrib-
ute to limiting global warming. The Group’s success is 
reflected in the steadily growing number of suppliers 
participating: 63 suppliers (2019: 40) reported at least 
one 2-degree-compliant target system, and 59 (2019: 54) 
plan to publish one within the next two years. 

at least  

– 20 %

CO2 emissions per vehicles  
in the supply chain by 2030

1  Including transport logistics.
2  Value rounded for simplification purposes. The target percentage validated in conjunction with SBTI is 22 %.

BMW GroupReport 2020 
 
Combined Management Report

Production,  Purchasing and  Supplier Network

 In 2020, a total of 218 suppliers to the BMW Group 
(2019:  199)  reported  via  the  CDP  Supply  Chain  pro-
gramme,  accounting  for  approximately  79 %  of  the 
BMW Group’s production-related purchasing volume 
(2019: 78 %). The participating suppliers reported carbon 
reduction totalling some 22 million tonnes of emissions 
(2019:  32 million  tonnes),  which  are  proportionately 
attributable to the materials and goods supplied to the 
BMW Group. Due to the coronavirus pandemic and the re-
sulting decrease in production volumes, carbon emissions 
were generally lower in 2020. Accordingly, the reduction 
in reported carbon emissions was also lower. 
 GRI 308-1, 
308-2, 414-1, 414-2

The BMW Group has integrated the assessments of 
the CDP Supply Chain Programme in its key purchasing 
processes. The results are used in discussions with sup-
pliers, in strategic management meetings and in overall 
supplier strategies to point out potential for improvement. 
On average, suppliers that have been reporting within the 
CDP Supply Chain Programme for at least three years 
have improved. The BMW Group sees this fact as proof 
that the programme has become well established at the 
companies participating for longer periods and that it 
yields the intended results. In 2020, the Group also asked 
more than 1,000 additional suppliers who, as small and 
medium-sized companies, did not meet the criteria to be 
invited to the CDP Supply Chain Programme to complete 
a carbon-related questionnaire. The activity further cov-
ered approximately another 11 % (and therefore a total of 
90 %) of the Group’s production-related purchasing vol-
ume. The results of the survey provided the BMW Group 
with additional insights that enabled it to further establish 
the carbon footprint assessment in the supply chain as an 
award criterion in decision-making processes. This was 
already the case in 18 out of 31 tenders with the largest 
carbon footprint. 

 GRI 308-1, 308-2, 414-1, 414-2

102

RESPECT FOR ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL 
 STANDARDS AND HUMAN RIGHTS

KEY ELEMENTS FOR SUSTAINABLE MATERIALS 
 PURCHASING

It is a major challenge to ensure compliance with 
human rights as well as environmental, health and safe-
ty standards in the extraction of raw materials. For this 
reason, BMW Group Purchasing goes beyond the mere 
contractual agreement of sustainability standards to a 
deeper point in the supply chain in order to conclude 
respective direct agreements at particularly critical points 
in the supplier network and ensures compliance with 
them by conducting audits.

The BMW Group is also involved in various initia-
tives to standardise management approaches towards 
implementing human rights due diligence and applying 
them throughout the entire supplier network. In Ger-
many, for example, these include the industry dialogue 
on respect for human rights along the global supply 
and value chains of the German automotive industry, 
in which the BMW Group is actively involved. It is also 
active internationally and involved in initiatives to stand-
ardise the mining of raw materials. By certifying mines 
in  accordance  with  the  standards  of  the 
 Initiative for 
 Responsible Mining Assurance (IRMA) or the 
 Aluminium Stewardship 
Initiative (ASI), the BMW Group is promoting compliance 
with environmental and social standards right from the 
raw material extraction stage with the aim of making a 
significant contribution to improving compliance with 
human rights throughout international supply chains. 

During  the  year  under  report,  the  BMW  Group 
included key sustainability issues such as biodiversity, 
deforestation and animal welfare in its 
 Supplier Sustain-
ability Policy, which forms the basis for the Group’s terms 
and conditions of purchase. Accordingly, BMW Group 
suppliers and all purchases are subject to the Group’s 
comprehensive sustainability requirements.

In 2012, in its materials strategy the BMW Group 
identified particularly critical raw materials and other 
materials from a sustainability perspective and initiat-
ed the cross-industry study 
 Material Change Report (2018) 
on  this  basis.  The  Group  continuously  analyses  the 
raw materials prioritised in the report as well as other 
materials essential for production with regard to their 
impact on the environment and society along the entire 
supply chain. By sourcing raw materials such as cobalt 
and lithium directly, the BMW Group can establish trace-
ability and transparency with regard to environmental 
and social standards, which is critical for conducting due 
diligence in raw materials supply chains. 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Combined Management Report

Production,  Purchasing and  Supplier Network

103

RESPONSIBLE USE OF NATURAL RESOURCES

COMPREHENSIVE MEASURES AND COOPERATION IN A 
SPIRIT OF PARTNERSHIP ENSURE COMPLIANCE WITH 
SUSTAINABILITY STANDARDS. 

 In  addition  to  compliance  with  environmental 
and social standards and respect for human rights, the 
responsible use of nature’s finite resources also plays a 
major role. 

With the aim of protecting stocks of critical raw ma-
terials, by 2030 the BMW Group plans to significantly 
increase the percentage of recycled raw materials, i. e. 
secondary raw materials, that it uses and to reuse these 
materials in line with circular economy principles. The 
growth  of  e-mobility  is  causing  the  topic  of  circular 
economy to become increasingly important, as a variety 
of critical raw materials are required to produce battery 
cells. The use of secondary raw materials significantly 
reduces the carbon footprint compared to primary ma-
terials: by a factor of 4 to 6 for aluminium and by a factor 
of 2 to 5 for steel and thermoplastics.

At its own plants, the BMW Group is gradually es-
tablishing closed recycling loops between the plants and 
the raw materials manufacturers, such as at the Landshut 
components plant. In late 2019, the 
 foundry in Landshut 
was certified by the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative 
(ASI) for its sustainable use of aluminium. Around half 
of the aluminium used at the BMW Group’s Landshut 
plant comes from a closed recycling loop. The Group is 
consciously reducing the use of carbon-intensive primary 
aluminium via this method.

We can only succeed in achieving our sustainabil-
ity goals by interacting with suppliers on the basis of 
mutual cooperation. Ultimately, climate protection and 
compliance with environmental and social standards 
are a challenge for the whole of society. As with quality, 
sustainability is all about accomplishing ambitious goals 
in close collaboration with the supplier network.

With the aim of stepping up its efforts to ensure 
due diligence in the field of sustainability, since 2018 
the BMW Group has been involved in developing the 
Automotive  Sustainability  Assessment  (ASA)  in  the 
German Association of the Automotive Industry (VDA). 
Based on these guidelines, the performance of essential 
due diligence procedures can now be audited in a stand-
ardised manner, even at the premises of medium-sized 
suppliers to the automotive industry. The BMW Group 
already  applies  the  Responsible  Business  Alliance 
(RBA) audit programme for major suppliers from the 
electronics  industry.  It  also  carries  out  qualification, 
standardisation and empowerment measures and holds 
informational events, particularly in the case of supply 
chains exposed to a higher degree of risk. The aim is to 
further develop and actively bring about transformation 
at suppliers with regard to sustainability issues. In its 
efforts to achieve this aim, the BMW Group leverages 
both individual and standardised elements of the Drive 
Sustainability Initiative and the Responsible Business 
Alliance to integrate sustainability in business processes 
such as procurement. 

 Electric mobility can only be sustainable if the 

raw materials it requires are also obtained as 
sustainably as possible. Take lithium for 
example:

The  BMW  Group  currently  sources  lithium  for  its  fifth  genera-
tion  of  high-voltage  batteries  exclusively  from  Australia,  where 
the material is extracted by means of a so-called hard rock min-
ing process. 

Furthermore, the Group has commissioned a study on sustaina-
ble lithium mining under the auspices of two renowned American 
universities in order to scientifically investigate water consump-
tion in the extraction of lithium. The purpose of the study, which 
will be jointly conducted by the University of  Alaska-Anchorage 
and the  University  of  Massachusetts-Amherst,  is to  investigate 
the  impact  of  lithium  mining  on  local  water  supplies  in  Latin 
America. 

Lithium is the lightest metal on earth and is mainly used to pro-
duce  batteries,  ceramics,  glass  and  aluminium.  It  is  therefore 
also an essential material for producing lithium-ion batteries and 
plays a key role in vehicle electrification.

Two-thirds  of  the  world’s  lithium  reserves  are  located  in  Latin 
America. To date, however, the impact of lithium mining in the re-
gion has not been sufficiently scientifically studied. The gap will 
now be closed by the study commissioned by the BMW Group. 
BASF SE is also partially financing the study. 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
In 2020, responsibility for sustainability in the supply 
chain and also energy was combined in a separate depart-
ment within Purchasing. It comprehensively manages the 
integration of sustainability factors in the BMW Group’s 
procurement activities. At the same time, it works togeth-
er closely with the Strategy department and continually 
adapts operational purchasing requirements.

A  detailed  presentation  of  sustainability-related 
activities  undertaken  in  the  supplier  network  and  a 
description of the OECD Due Diligence Guidance is 
available on the 
 BMW Group website. 

Combined Management Report

Production,  Purchasing and  Supplier Network

 Via the due diligence process, the BMW Group 
checks whether and how sustainability standards are be-
ing implemented by its suppliers. Suppliers contractually 
undertake to comply with a range of requirements in line 
with their environmental (ISO 14001, EMAS) and occu-
pational health and safety management systems (OHSAS 
18001, ISO 45001) and to demand and maintain compli-
ance with these agreements from their subcontractors.

In  2020,  the  sustainability  questionnaire  for  sup-
pliers, which was initiated by the BMW Group in 2012 
and jointly compiled by the automotive manufacturers, 
was comprehensively revised. The BMW Group’s Supply 
Chain Response Team processes any information regard-
ing potential breaches of its sustainability standards in 
the supplier network. Furthermore, the BMW Group’s 
Human Rights Contact Supply Chain serves as the cen-
tral point of contact and can be reached anonymously by 
telephone or email to report any potential violations of 
social or environmental standards by suppliers.

The BMW Group has agreed corrective measures with 
64 % (2019: 62 %) of the suppliers at which sustainability 
shortfalls were identified in the course of the reporting 
year. The suppliers are required to remedy these defi-
cits prior to the start of production. The main areas to 
be acted upon in particular were hazardous materials 
management, waste management, working conditions 
and occupational health and safety. 
 GRI 308-1, 308-2, 414-1, 
414-2

104

 The BMW Group follows the principle of 

empowerment before disengagement.

The mining of cobalt entails risks, particularly when it comes to 
upholding  human  rights.  The  BMW  Group  is  committed to  en-
suring that the  mining  and  processing  of  cobalt  are  carried  out 
in  accordance  with  sustainability  standards  and  international-
ly  applicable  labour  laws.  For this  reason, the  Group  purchases 
the cobalt needed to produce its fifth generation of battery cells 
directly from the mines themselves and makes it available to the 
battery cell suppliers. Around one-fifth of the BMW Group’s co-
balt requirement is purchased from mines in Morocco and the re-
maining four-fifths in Australia.

At  the  same  time,  the  Group  is  engaged  in  a  pilot  project  in 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  Congo  in  keeping  with  the  princi-
ple  of  “empowerment  before  disengagement”.  In  2018,  the 
BMW  Group  joined  forces  with  other  partners  to  initiate  the 
cross-sector initiative “Cobalt for Development” with the aim of 
improving the working and living conditions of workers engaged 
in small-scale cobalt mining operations in the Congo. As part of 
the project, around 40 members of 12 mining cooperatives were 
trained as trainers on occupational and environmental risks who 
pass  on the  content to  more than  1,500  miners  in the  form  of 
training courses. These programmes are underpinned by activi-
ties in local communities by which the residents benefit from im-
proved access to education and alternative income opportunities. 
The project is being implemented by the Gesellschaft für interna-
tionale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH.

The aim of the project is to further develop and professionalise 
artisanal  mining  in the  Congo to  meet the  BMW  Group’s  strict 
sustainability requirements and could be an option for sourcing 
cobalt in the long term.

More information on this project is available 

 here. 

BMW GroupReport 2020 
Employees and Society

105

EMPLOYEES 
AND  SOCIETY

PROMISED

THE BMW GROUP  
SEES DIVERSITY as a 
STRENGTH. That is why it has 

set targets for the long-term 

 advancement of women at all 

levels of the company.

BMW GroupReport 2020 
