91 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 

FOREWORD TO THE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT * 

The  BMW Group  is  committed  to  making  continuous  progress. 
Its  innovative expertise  aims to  systematically  reduce  resource 
requirements. Taking a 360° approach to sustainability is a cen-
tral pillar of the BMW Group Strategy. 

the  use  phase  of  automobiles  (Scope  3  categories  Purchased 
Goods and Services, Downstream Transportation and Distribu-
tions, Use of Sold Products). The Group’s holistic, science-based 
approach involves This is built on 

The BMW Group believes that its ability to create value and per-
form at a high level lies in balancing its economic, environmental 
and social responsibilities. The BMW Group has a long tradition 
of being responsible and forward-thinking when it comes to en-
vironmental protection, our people and our commitment to soci-
ety. It is only natural, then, that in recent years we have expanded 
our focus beyond our own operations to our entire value chain, 
including  our  upstream  supply  chains  and  the  lifecycle  of  our 
products after they have been delivered to our customers.  

The Company pioneered sustainable business practices by ap-
pointing the first environmental officer in the German automotive 
industry  over  fifty  years  ago.  Today,  its  robust  environmental 
management systems and approach to corporate responsibility 
continue to uphold the BMW Group’s high standards. 

The BMW Group is making its contribution to Europe's overarch-
ing goal of climate neutrality by striving to achieve net zero car-
bon emissions across its entire value chain by 2050 at the latest. 
The  BMW Group’s  ambitious  sustainability  targets  are  aligned 
with the 1.5°C pathway of the Paris Agreement for its CO2e emis-
sions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) and the Well-Below-Two-Degree 
(WB2C) approach for CO2e emissions from the supply chain and 

—  permanent reduction of energy requirements (Scope 1 and 

2 emissions of BMW Group locations),  

—  making  greater  use  of  renewable  energy  (Scope  1  and  2 

emissions of BMW Group locations),  

—  using  the  latest technology to  improve  efficiency  (Scope 3 

Use of Sold Products),  

—  using electricity from renewable sources as a criterion when 
awarding contracts to suppliers (Scope 3 Purchased Goods 
and Services), and  

—  a  continuously  increasing  secondary  raw  material  quota 

(Scope 3 Purchased Goods and Services). 

The BMW Group offers its customers state-of-the-art drive tech-
nology,  regardless  of  the  drivetrain  type.  The  Company  recog-
nised the challenges now facing the entire automotive industry 
at an early stage and is taking the initiative to find solutions. The 
BMW Group has been reducing fuel consumption for many years 
by  using  innovative  EfficientDynamics  technologies  to  develop 
highly  efficient  engines,  thus ensuring  the  increasingly  efficient 
use of fossil fuels at an early stage. The expansion of the PHEV 
fleet marked a significant step  towards drivetrain electrification 
and  reduced  the  carbon  emissions  of  the  Group’s  own  vehicle 
fleet  even  further.  The  BMW  Group’s  entry  into  electromobility 

began over 15 years ago with the development of the all-electric 
BMW i3. The extensive experience gained since then continues 
to shape the BMW Group’s manufacturing processes for all-elec-
tric  models,  which  have  become  a  success  story  for  the 
BMW Group. In 2024, they accounted for 17.4% of total deliver-
ies, making the BMW Group one of the world's most successful 
suppliers of all-electric vehicles. This robust strategy has deliv-
ered measurable success, with the BMW Group regularly surpas-
sing EU carbon targets for its fleet. Consistently strong rankings 
in  prestigious  rating  schemes  highlight  the  priority  that  the 
BMW Group places on sustainability. 

The NEUE KLASSE, a new model generation, will be launched in 
2025. It was developed with a strong emphasis on efficiency and 
sustainability throughout the supply chain. At the same time, with 
the  NEUE  KLASSE,  the  BMW  Group  is  vigorously  pursuing  its 
strategic  approach  to  close  material  cycles  and  thus  gradually 
move closer to circularity. The BMW Group intends to introduce 
a second all-electric and locally emission-free variant to be pow-
ered by hydrogen fuel cells in 2028. 

Climate  change  mitigation  is  a  top  priority  for  the  BMW Group. 
Between 1995 and 2020, the BMW Group halvedthe CO₂ emis-
sions of its new car fleet in Europe, thanks in no small part to an 
unwavering commitment to EfficientDynamics technologies. The 
EfficientDynamics  approach  brings  together  highly  efficient 
drivetrains, intelligent lightweight construction and optimised ve-
hicle energy management systems. 

* Not part of ESRS reporting. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
92 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

Remuneration Report 

Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

However, the BMW Group doesn’t restrict its commitment to tak-
ing  impactful  action  to  its  own  vehicles.  The  Group  takes  a 
broader perspective which encompasses the entirety of the vehi-
cle population, which comprises over 250 million automobiles in 
Europe alone. The greatest untapped area of potential when it 
comes to reducing carbon emissions from road traffic in the near 
future  lies  in  increasing  the  renewable,  carbon-neutral  compo-
nents in fuel. Since the phased introduction of the B-series petrol 
engine in 2015, the BMW Group’s petrol engines have been ap-
proved for use with fuel containing up to 25% ethanol (E25), in-
stead of fuel that meets the current E10 standard. This switch 
reduces  CO₂e  emissions  by  approximately  20%  to  45%,  de-
pending on the composition of the rest of the fuel. Once the nec-
essary legal frameworks have been established, fuels of this kind 
will be ready for widespread adoption. For diesel drivetrains, an 
alternative  already  exists:  HVO100,  a  fuel  derived  from  waste 
materials  with  90%  fewer  carbon  emissions.  This  fuel  can  be 
used in vehicles from the BMW Group thanks to the gradual in-
troduction of the B-diesel engine generation, a process which be-
gan in 2015. In this regard, the BMW Group is contributing in ad-
vance with a pilot project: since early 2025, all diesel models pro-
duced in Germany have been filled with non-fossil HVO100 as 
their  first  factory  fill  prior  to  delivery  to  retail  partners.  The 
BMW Group  launched  this  pilot  project  to  demonstrate  that 
HVO100  is  a  fully  viable  and  practical  diesel  substitute.  As  of 
January  2025,  the  BMW Group's  vehicle  fleet  includes  around 
4.5 million diesel engines and over 13 million B-series petrol en-
gines. By using a higher share of renewable fuels, these engines 
are playing a significant role in cutting CO₂e emissions. 

This  approach  reflects  the  BMW  Group’s  commitment  to  tech-
nology openness: a high-quality mix of state-of-the-art, efficient 
drivetrain types makes an effective contribution to the reduction 
of CO2e emissions. 

In 2020, the BMW Group expanded its strategic target system 
beyond the boundaries of its own Company and formulated its 
own targets for the reduction of carbon emissions in the supply 
chain. The BMW Group uses integrated management systems to 
cover a wide range of measures, from definition of its own climate 
objectives  to  individual  operational  decisions.  This  approach 

allows  the  Group  to  ensure  that  resources  are  used  efficiently 
while also providing transparent information about the effective-
ness of these measures. The BMW Group believes that the im-
plementation of a holistic circular economy has enormous poten-
tial to further reduce the consumption of resources and drive for-
ward the development of closed material cycles. 

In 2030, the BMW Group intends to reduce its carbon emissions 
levels  by  at  least  40  million  tonnes  compared  to  2019.  To 
achieve this aim, the Group will focus on using renewable ener-
gies in production, electrifying the vehicle fleet, and using elec-
tricity from renewable sources along with secondary materials to 
decarbonise the supply chain. This new target replaces the pre-
vious goal of reducing carbon emissions per vehicle by 40% over 
the same period. 

The BMW Group places great emphasis on the responsible and 
efficient use of resources of all types. Guided by the principles of 
Re:think, Re:duce, Re:use, Re:cycle, the BMW Group is working 
closely with its partners in the circular economy to close material 
loops within the automotive industry and integrate circularity into 
its processes. The Group also monitors its fresh water and en-
ergy consumption levels on a consistent basis so that they can 
be minimised. The BMW Group is expanding its water treatment 
systems to minimise fresh water usage and maximise efficiency. 

The BMW Group can rely on its workforce to meet these ambi-
tious  goals.  It  encourages  its  employees  to  develop  their 
strengths,  with  diversity  playing  an  important  role.  The  BMW 
Group places great emphasis on fostering an unprejudiced, ap-
preciative and inclusive working environment where the benefits 
of  diverse  teams  allow  individuals  to  unfold  their  full  potential. 
The  BMW  Group  is  consistently  working  towards  its  strategic 
goal of increasing the proportion of women in management po-
sitions. The Group’s performance and ability to compete are en-
hanced  by  strong  teams  with  complementary  strengths  who 
work together to achieve the best solutions in a complex environ-
ment.  

To this end, the Company continuously invests in building up the 
expertise of its workforce. Continuous training guarantees jobs. 

With “Just Transition”, the BMW Group is combining the transfor-
mation with modern workplaces that guarantee safety and relia-
bility  for  its  workforce  in  a  productive  environment.  In  the 
BMW Group’s production network, entire plants are being trans-
formed  and  geared  towards  electromobility  while  production 
continues.  Highly  regarded  employer  ratings  consistently  rank 
the BMW Group as one of the world’s most attractive employers. 

Cooperation with external partners is based on stable and estab-
lished  relationships,  as  well  as  the  same  values  that  are  culti-
vated  within  the  BMW Group.  These  partnerships  explore  new 
technologies and develop innovations. For the BMW Group, up-
holding  environmental  and  social  standards  across  its  global 
supplier  network  is  of  the  utmost  importance.  This  includes,  in 
particular, the respect of human rights. This commitment is an-
chored  in  the  Group’s  own  ethical  principles  and  reinforced 
through  risk  analyses  and  monitoring.  The  BMW Group’s  raw 
materials  strategy  and  commitment  to  responsible  resource 
management are integral parts of its holistic corporate strategy. 

This Sustainability Statement has been prepared in accordance 
with the European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS). It 
is based on a double materiality assessment that considers both 
the  inside-out  and  outside-in  perspectives.  According  to  the 
ESRS, companies must classify ESG topics as either material or 
non-material. The BMW Group . factors in effective, Group-wide 
mitigating actions which have already been implemented. Mate-
riality is assessed at the lowest topic level (bottom-up approach). 
Accordingly, topics classified as non-material under ESRS may 
still hold significant importance for the BMW Group. Legally com-
pliant behaviour is also a top priority for the BMW Group in these 
areas. 

Because of this, the results of a materiality assessment carried 
out by the Group on an ESRS basis may not be fully comparable 
with those of other companies. This means that a sustainability 
topic  may  be  classified  or  reported  on  differently  by  different 
companies in the same sector due to their specific assessment 
criteria and frameworks. 

95 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

G E N E R A L   B A S I S   F O R   P R E P A R A T I O N   O F  
T H E   S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y   S T A T E M E N T  

This  Sustainability  Statement  fulfils  the  requirements  for  the 
combined non-financial statement (NFS) in accordance with §§ 
289b (1) and 315b (1) to 315c of the German Commercial Code 
(HGB).  It  therefore  represents  the  Combined  Non-financial 
Statement of the BMW Group and BMW AG. Unless stated oth-
erwise,  all  information  relates  to  both  the  BMW Group  and 
BMW AG. 

We have adopted the delegated act outlined in Article 29b of Di-
rective  2013/34/EU  on  sustainability  reporting  standards  (the 
European Sustainability Reporting Standards [ESRS]) in full for 
the  first  time.  Contrary  to  expectations,  the  ESRS  are  not  cur-
rently mandatory due to the fact that the Corporate Sustainability 
Reporting Directive was not adopted into German law by 31 De-
cember  2024.  Due  to  the  future  mandatory  application,  the 
ESRS are nevertheless already used as a framework for the NFE 
for the 2024 financial year on a voluntary basis. 

Because  Group-level  information  is  of  relevance  for  our  stake-
holders, the NFS for BMW AG will not use a different framework. 
In principle, the policies, measures and targets described for the 
Group also apply to BMW AG. 

This  Sustainability  Statement  also  takes  the  following  legal 
frameworks into account: 

—  Taxonomy  Regulation  (Regulation  (EU)  2020 /852  of  the 
European  Council  and  of  the  European  Parliament  on  the 
Establishment of a Framework to Facilitate Sustainable In-
vestment, and amending Regulation (EU) 2019 /2088) and 
its delegated acts 

—  Book IX of the German Social Code: Rehabilitation and Par-

ticipation of People with Disabilities (SGB IX) § 154 

The Sustainability Statement also draws on the SASB standards 
published by the Sustainable Accounting Standards Board. They 
provide information about sector-specific disclosures. Footnotes 
are used to identify these disclosures as additional disclosures. 
An overview is available in the ↗ SASB Index. 

Some  of  the  data  points  in  this  report  refer  to  the  2021  GRI 
Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 

This Sustainability Statement is prepared on a consolidated ba-
sis for the entire BMW Group. The Sustainability Statement co-
vers all companies that are included in the reporting entity for the 
BMW  Group’s  Financial  Statements.  Subsidiaries  are  incorpo-
rated in full, while joint operations are included on a proportion-
ate basis. Similar to the Group Financial Statements, individual 
companies  are  not  included  in  the  Sustainability  Statement  if 
they are deemed immaterial. An overview of the companies that 
have been included is available in the
↗ List of Investments. Devia-
tions from the Group reporting entity have been noted for the rel-
evant disclosures. 

The Sustainability Statement covers the BMW Group’s own busi-
ness  activities  along  with  its  upstream  and  downstream  value 
chain. 

The  BMW  Group’s  ESRS-based  materiality  assessment  has 
identified  the  impacts,  risks  and  opportunities  that  are  consid-
ered material in accordance with ESRS. A detailed description of 
this  materiality  assessment  is  provided  in  the  ↗ Materiality 
Assessment  section.  Whenever  the  identified  material  impacts, 
risks  and  opportunities  can  be  assigned  to  the  upstream  or 
downstream value chain, the policies used to address them, the 
targets defined in relation to the material sustainability matters, 
and the measures that have been taken or planned to achieve 
strategic targets and objectives also apply across the upstream 
or downstream value chain. 

The parameters that have been determined and applied in this 
Sustainability Statement also include the value chain to the ex-
tent that this is required by law or useful for the purpose of pre-
senting and explaining a material sustainability-related issue. 

The BMW Group is making use of the option to omit certain in-
formation relating to intellectual property, expertise or the results 
of  innovations  for  the  2024  financial  year  (§  289e  HGB).  The 
safeguard  clause  applies  to  the  disclosures  specified  in  ESRS 
E1-1.16c)  and  E1-3.29c).  The  safeguard  clause  referenced  in 
ESRS 2 BP-1.5e) has not been used for the 2024 financial year. 

The  timeframes  for  collecting  and  assessing  material  impacts, 
risks and opportunities are aligned with our long-term corporate 
planning.  The  short-term  period  corresponds  to  the  reporting 
year.  In  terms  of  material  impacts,  risks  and  opportunities,  the 
medium-term  time  horizon  covers  the  period  from  2025  to 
2030. Accordingly, the long-term time horizon extends to the pe-
riod after 2030. For the main climate-related impacts, risks and 
opportunities, the period from 2025 to 2035 is considered to be 
medium-term. The long-term period begins after 2035. The pe-
riods for the material climate-related impacts, risks and opportu-
nities correspond to the periods previously used in the Group’s 
internal assessment and external reporting. 

A complete list of disclosure requirements and referenced data 
points is available in the ↗ ESRS Index. 

Due to the voluntary first-time application of ESRS, the previous 
year’s figures are not disclosed in this Sustainability Statement, 
with  a  few  exceptions.  Figures  reported  in  the  Group  Financial 
Statements that enable a better understanding of the non-finan-
cial statement are disclosed and explained. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
96 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

Strategic position - Sustainability-related goals 
Key  sustainability-related  goals  are  described  as  integral  com-
ponents  of  the  BMW Group  strategy  in  ↗ Position  –  what  does  the 
BMW  Group  stand  for?  and  ↗ Climate  Change  Mitigation  and  Adaptation, 
↗ Energy Efficiency and renewable Energies, ↗ Circular Economy and Resource 
Use and ↗ Own Workforce. 

S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y   S T R A T E G Y  

The aim of the BMW Group Strategy is to find the right balance 
between business, the environment and society. The key areas 
of focus within the strategy are electrification, digitalisation and 
sustainability or circularity. Sustainability encompasses the stra-
tegic organisation of the entire value chain. Sustainability consid-
erations are therefore integrated in corporate structures and pro-
cesses in a comprehensive and holistic manner. » The BMW Group 
Strategy 

Operating segments 
The  BMW  Group’s  business  model  comprises  the  Automotive, 
Motorcycles  and  Financial  Services  segments.  A  detailed  de-
scription of the segments along with their products, services and 
key  markets  can  be  found  in  » Organisation and Business Model  and 
» Segments. Information about relevant BMW Group products that 
were introduced in 2024 is also provided in  » New BMW products, 
» New MINI Family launched, » Motorcycles Segment and » Strategic approach 
– where is the BMW Group heading?. 

Employees 
At 31 December 2024, the BMW Group employed a workforce 
of 158,441 people worldwide. The distribution of the workforce 
by region is presented in ↗ Own workforce characteristics. 

Business model and value chain 
The BMW Group develops and manufactures premium automo-
biles and motorcycles, in addition to providing financial services. 
General  information  about  the  factors  that  impact  its  business 
model and management is provided in » The BMW Group Strategy. 

The BMW Group’s upstream value chain comprises a multi-lay-
ered network of suppliers who provide production material, raw 
materials, components, capital goods and services to the BMW 
Group for the purpose of producing vehicles and parts. For a de-
scription of the Purchasing and Production departments and the 

role that they play in the value chain, please refer to » Purchasing 
and  Supplier  Network  and  » Production  Network.  The  BMW  Group’s 
global sales network functions as a downstream value chain and 
serves to sell the vehicles produced, provide customer care, and 
carry  out  maintenance  and  repair  work  on  vehicles  owned  by 
customers.  An  explanation  of  the  BMW  Group’s  sales  system 
and  the  relevant  customer  groups  and  markets  is  available  in 
» Segments, » Organisation and Business Model. » Strategic approach – Where 
is the BMW Group heading? provides an insight into the sales strategy 
and the shift to direct sales. The recycling and reprocessing  of 
parts and the recycling of vehicles is covered in ↗ Measures for the 
responsible use of resources.  Thousands  of  vehicles  are  dismantled 
and  recycled  using  efficient  methods  every  year  at  the 
BMW Group’s  recycling  and  dismantling  centre.  The  BMW 
Group’s Financial Services segment focuses on credit financing, 
leasing BMW Group brand automobiles and motorcycles to pri-
vate customers, and the fleet business. It plays a key role in the 
sales system. Further details are available in » Segments – Financial 
Services. Regardless of how the contracts are categorised for fi-
nancial reporting purposes, the use of vehicles leased in the Fi-
nancial Services segment and the associated environmental im-
pacts are allocated in full to the downstream value chain. 

For information on financial performance and the course of busi-
ness, please refer to  » Financial Performance and  » Course of Business 
and  Segments.  An  overview  of  actual  and  potential  material  im-
pacts, risks and opportunities, and how they relate to the BMW 
Group’s business model, strategy and value chain, can be found 
in  ↗ Material  Impacts,  Risks  and  Opportunities  and  their  Interaction  with 
Strategy and the Business Model. This also provides information about 
the resilience of the BMW Group’s corporate strategy and busi-
ness model with regard to management of material impacts and 
risks as well as utilisation of material opportunities.  

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
97 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

M A T E R I A L I T Y   A S S E S S M E N T  

Procedure and methodological basis for the materiality 
assessment 
After many years of applying the GRI materiality methodology, 
the BMW Group conducted its first materiality assessment based 
on  the  European  Corporate  Sustainability  Reporting  Directive 
(CSRD) and the ESRS. This assessment followed the double ma-
teriality approach outlined in ESRS 1, which considers two key 
perspectives: 

Impacts  (inside-out  perspective): this  perspective assesses  the 
positive and negative impacts of the BMW Group’s business ac-
tivities on the environment and society. It encompasses all rele-
vant stakeholders of the BMW Group. 

Risks and Opportunities (outside-in perspective): this perspective 
assesses  how  external  sustainability  factors  influence  the 
BMW Group’s business model. It focuses on risks and opportu-
nities  that  could  arise  from  external  developments  and  have  a 
financial impact on the BMW Group. 

The BMW Group uses the steps outlined below to identify, as-
sess and prioritise impacts, risks and opportunities as part of the 
materiality  assessment  process.  The  approach  outlined  in 
ESRS 1 is used for all sustainability topics, including aspects of 
business  conduct  (ESRS  G1),  biodiversity  and  ecosystems 
(ESRS E4) and resource use and circular economy (ESRS E5). 
Additional  descriptions  of  the  identification  and  assessment  of 
material climate and environmental impacts, risks and opportu-
nities follow this general overview. 

1. 

Identification and assessment of relevant sustainability 
topics (identification of impacts, risks, and opportunities) 
for the BMW Group 

2.  Transparency regarding expectations and interests of key 
internal stakeholders and dialogue with relevant and af-
fected stakeholders external to the BMW Group 

3.  Assignment of material sustainability topics to the corre-

sponding disclosures in the topical ESRS 

4.  Validation of outcomes and finalisation of the materiality 

assessment. 

Additional  analyses  for  specific  sustainability  topics  are  some-
times performed before the materiality assessment itself. 

Scenario  analyses  are  used  to identify  climate-related  physical 
and transitory risks and opportunities ↗Procedures for identifying and 
assessing  material  climate-related  and  environmental  impacts,  risks  and  
opportunities. The results of these analyses are incorporated into 
the materiality assessment to identify potential and actual mate-
rial risks and opportunities and their scale. Analysis of opportu-
nities  and  risks  takes  place  in  the  three  defined  time  horizons 
↗ General Basis for Preparation of the Sustainability Statement. 

The following methodology is used for the inside-out as well as 
the outside-in perspective. 

Step 1 
The first step in identifying and assessing relevant sustainability 
topics is to review the relevant sustainability topics identified on 
the basis of the BMW Group’s materiality assessments in previ-
ous  years,  taking  into  account  the  extended  requirements  of 
ESRS.  This  step  also  involves  determining  the  extent  to  which 
new or additional sustainability-related topics need to be added, 
for example in the areas of strategy, Board of Management re-
muneration,  competition,  or  environmental  analysis.  The  out-
come of this review is assigned to the sustainability topics spec-
ified in ESRS 1 “General requirements”. 

Next, negative or positive impacts on the environment and soci-
ety are formulated for each sustainability topic (e.g. water con-
sumption at production sites) along the entire BMW Group value 
chain*. The starting point is the Company’s established environ-
mental,  social  and  governance  due  diligence  processes.  When 
needed, these are supplemented by new impacts that have not 

yet been subject to detailed monitoring (e.g. in the area of biodi-
versity).  The  impacts  form the basis  for  deriving  potential  risks 
and opportunities (e.g. regulatory risks to curb water consump-
tion  in  water-sensitive  areas)  for  the  BMW  Group’s  business 
model. There are also sustainability-related risks and opportuni-
ties that may affect the BMW Group regardless of their impact. 
Risks and opportunities of this kind are compared with the out-
comes  of  the  company-wide  risk  management  process  (infor-
mation about the risk management process is provided in ↗ Risk 
and  opportunity  management,  while  the  definition  of  non-financial 
risks  in  accordance  with  Section  289c  HGB  is  provided  in  
↗ Non-financial risks as reported in the non-financial statement (NFS)). Each 
impact or opportunity and each risk is placed in a temporal con-
text  with  three  different  categories:  short-term  (2024  financial 
year), medium-term (2025 to 2030 inclusive; up to and including 
2035 for climate-related risks or opportunities) and long-term (> 
2030 or > 2035 for climate-related risks/opportunities). The re-
sulting  list  of  impacts,  risks  and  opportunities  is  validated  in 
workshops with internal and external experts. Risks and oppor-
tunities are derived at the level of sustainability sub-topics and 
sub-sub-topics  whenever  possible  so  that  their  materiality  can 
be  assessed  on  a  differentiated  basis  within  a  topic-specific 
ESRS. 

Both  the  upstream  value  chain  (supply  chain)  and  the  down-
stream value chain are considered as part of the materiality as-
sessment. The impact on the environment and people along the 
supply chain is addressed in the impacts, risks and opportunities 
that relate to environmental or social sustainability topics. 

* This encompasses all of the BMW Group’s operations, including all of its locations and regions, as 

well as its business relationships. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
98 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

The business conduct-related impacts, risks and opportunities in 
the context of the supply chain, on the other hand, focus exclu-
sively on the management of relationships with suppliers, includ-
ing payment practices.* This includes, for example, fair behaviour 
towards suppliers, transparent selection process criteria, and ad-
equate payment practices. 

The  subsequent  tool-supported  assessment  of  all  formulated 
impacts, risks and opportunities is carried out by internal experts. 
Each assessment parameter is rated on a scale of 1 to 4. The 
range in the overall assessment can therefore be between 0.1 
and a maximum of 4.0 when multiplied by a probability of occur-
rence. If an impact, risk or opportunity exceeds 2, it is considered 
material. The severity of a negative or positive impact is deter-
mined by multiplying its scope (how widespread is the impact?) 
by its scale (how grave or beneficial is the impact?). For negative 
impacts, the extent to which the impact can be remedied is also 
taken into account. In the case of a potential (positive or negative) 
impact, the assessment is assigned a probability of occurrence. 
Risks  and  opportunities  are  assessed  on  the  basis  of  financial 
materiality. Potential risks and  opportunities are the product of 
their financial scale and their probability of occurrence. The fol-
lowing categories are used to specify the financial scale of a risk 
or opportunity: financial performance, strategic targets, reputa-
tion effect, supply chain and compliance. Not all evaluation cate-
gories  necessarily  have  to  be  evaluated  and  the  highest  value 
from the five evaluation categories is always decisive. 

The assessment process is also based on the following assump-
tions: 

—  Mitigating actions that have already been implemented and 
are effective for the BMW Group during the reporting period 
are taken into account when assessing impacts and risks.  
In cases where assessment results are provided by multiple 
assessors due to segment-specific differences, an average 
valuation is applied. 

— 

—  An additional detailed review of the outcomes is carried out 
in threshold cases where a rating is exactly or just below 2, 
as well as in extreme cases.  

—  Assessment results are backed up using external sources or 

empirical studies whenever possible. 

Outcome:  The  sustainability  sub-topics  and  sub-sub-topics 
specified in ESRS 1 are in line with the sustainability matters that 
the BMW Group has considered to date. On the basis of the sus-
tainability  sub-topics  and  sub-sub-topics  specified  in  ESRS  1 
and the mitigating action which has been implemented, a total of 
almost  800 
the 
BMW Group  value  chain  were  available  for  assessment  pur-
poses.  Of  these,  85  impacts,  risks  and  opportunities  were  as-
sessed as material for the BMW Group via the internal analysis 
for the 2024 financial year. These can be assigned to 31 sus-
tainability sub-topics and sub-sub-topics (for details, see ↗ List of 
material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities). 

impacts,  risks  and  opportunities  along 

Step 2 
In the second step, the BMW Group involves affected stakehold-
ers and users of sustainability statements in assessing the ma-
terial  sustainability  topics.  The  following  stakeholder  groups 
were consulted in order to draw opinions from as wide a circle as 
possible: investors, the Works Council of BMW AG as employee 
representatives,  customers,  suppliers  and  other  business  part-
ners, network partners, representatives from civil society, NGOs, 
and representatives from politics and science. Stakeholders are 
placed in E, S or G groups based on their expertise, and asked 
for  their  individual  opinion  of  the  assessment  results. Opinions 
are  gathered  using  structured  interview  formats,  e.g.  virtual 
stakeholder forums with external moderators. The BMW Group 
is  also  in  continuous  dialogue  with  a  large  number  of  external 
stakeholders in Germany and abroad regarding all sustainability 
matters  listed  below.  These  are  involved  in  the  materiality  as-
sessment process as part of the stakeholder management pro-
cess. ↗ Stakeholder Engagement 

Outcome:  The  material  sustainability  sub-topics  and  sub-sub-
topics  identified  by  BMW  Group’s  internal  materiality  assess-
ment were confirmed by the stakeholder groups surveyed. Infor-
mation  on  adjusting  the  relevance  of  sustainability  topics  was 
taken into account as part of a validation of the assessment re-
sults. 

Step 3 
In the third step, the relevant sustainability topics for the BMW 
Group are assigned to the individual disclosure requirements of 
the topical ESRS. As the European Commission has yet to issue 
a  final  mapping  matrix  for  the  2024  financial  year,  the  BMW 
Group mapped sustainability topics independently and arranged 
for its mappings to be validated by two external consulting firms. 
For  the  mapping  of  a  material  sustainability  sub-topic  or  sub-
sub-topic  to  disclosure  requirements  in  the  area  of  strategies, 
measures and targets, the minimum disclosure requirements ac-
cording to ESRS 2 and the disclosure requirements of the rele-
vant topical standard are taken into account. 

Material sustainability sub-topics or sub-sub-topics are linked to 
quantitative disclosure requirements via the specific formulation 
of a material impact, a material risk or a material opportunity. By 
way of example, the material impact on “Social dialogue” makes 
the sustainability sub-sub-topic “Social dialogue” material. The 
material  sustainability  sub-topics  and  sub-sub-topics  are  then 
assigned to the disclosure requirements pursuant to ESRS. 

Outcome:  The  31  material  sustainability  sub-topics  and  sub-
sub-topics,  which  are  distributed  across  85  impacts,  risks  and 
opportunities, are associated with over 500 individual disclosure 
requirements (data points) for the BMW Group for the 2024 fi-
nancial year in accordance with the respective ESRS. 

* Approach adopted by the BMW Group for ESRS G1 sustainability topic “Management of relation-

ships with suppliers, including payment practices”. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
99 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

Step 4 
In the fourth step, all outcomes of the materiality assessment are 
explained in detail to the relevant bodies, in particular the Board 
of Management and the Audit Committee of BMW AG. The re-
sulting conclusions are discussed with the relevant decision mak-
ers. If necessary, this is used to adjust selected results of the as-
sessment.  

Outcome:  The  result  of  the  materiality  assessment  for  the 
BMW Group was confirmed by the committees of BMW AG after 
the entire process, including adjustments, was completed. 

Comparison with previous period and next review of results 
The  materiality  assessment  in  accordance  with  the  ESRS  was 
performed for the BMW Group for first time in the 2024 financial 
year. This means that a comparison with the prior year cannot 
be made. There will be a review of the results of the assessment 
of  material  sustainability topics  following  the  publication  of  the 
2024 BMW Group Report during the 2025 financial year, and on 
an ongoing basis in the financial years ahead. 

Procedures for identifying and assessing material climate-
related and environmental impacts, risks and opportunities 
Climate-related impacts 
The  BMW Group  directly  and  indirectly  generates  greenhouse 
gas emissions worldwide through upstream processes, the pro-
curement and processing of raw materials, products and services 
for development and production, and the supply and use of its 
own products and services. ↗ Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation  

These  emissions  are  assessed,  recorded,  measured  and  re-
ported in accordance with the requirements of the Greenhouse 
Gas  Protocol  and  the  relevant  scopes  in  terms  of  their  signifi-
cance.  As  an  automobile  manufacturer,  most  of 
the 
BMW Group’s emissions are generated during the production of 
purchased components and during the use of its products (Scope 
3). The supply chain’s relevance is growing steadily due to rising 
emissions  caused  by  the 
increasing  electrification  of  the 
BMW Group’s vehicle fleet. Despite their lower volume compared 

to absolute values, the emissions from our own sites (Scopes 1 
and 2) are measured and steered because of their direct influ-
ence. The procedure for measuring all scopes or categories clas-
sified as relevant is firmly established in the BMW Group’s non-
financial reporting process ↗ CO2e footprint, ↗ Materiality of the various 
Scope  3  categories.  These  metrics  are  reviewed  internally  in  the 
event of significant changes and adjusted if necessary. It is also 
checked whether there are any changes or additions to the rele-
vant categories with reference to the requirements of the Green-
house Gas Protocol. 

To  assess  the  impact  of  its  own  business  activities  on  green-
house gas emissions, the BMW Group has made these analyses 
an  integral  part  of  its  long-term  corporate  planning.  The  CO2e 
emissions resulting from sales planning (with a focus on the sup-
ply chain and the use phase, as well as own production) are sim-
ulated based on current assumptions and checked against the 
reduction targets. This is used to derive the measures required 
to  achieve  the  objectives  and  to  initiate  their  implementation. 
Variables that do not correlate to the volume and drivetrain mix 
are also controlled – for example, the infrastructure of non-man-
ufacturing sites. 

Procedure and methodological basis for climate-related risks and 
opportunities  
Climate  change  may  also  impact  the  BMW Group  business 
model  in  different  ways.  As  a  result,  the  company  analyses  a 
wide  range  of  climate  scenarios,  identifies  and  measures  cli-
mate-related  risks  and  opportunities  and  adopts  the  relevant 
measures.  

During the 2024 reporting year, all material risks and opportuni-
ties for the BMW Group were analysed in terms of their sensitivity 
regarding three different climate scenarios. For the medium-term 
period  until  2036,  it  is  distinguished  between  transitory  and 
physical climate risks. For the long-term period until 2050, the 
assessment focuses on the physical climate risks. Examples of 
physical climate risks include an increasing frequency and inten-
sity  of  acute  extreme  weather  events  such  as  heavy  rain,  hail, 

storms and floods, along with longer-term changes in tempera-
ture and total rainfall. Transitory risks, by contrast, arise from the 
transition  to  a  low-emissions  economy.  These  include,  among 
others,  regulatory  risks,  technology  risks,  capital  and  financial 
market risks, and market risks. 

The BMW Group uses three scenarios to identify and measure 
climate-related  risks,  which  are  based  on  the  scenarios  of  the 
Shared Socioeconomic Pathways (SSP) of the Intergovernmen-
tal Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). The 2014 IPCC Report was 
used for the scenario analyses in 2023, while the 2023 IPCC Re-
port was used for 2024. These climate scenarios range from a 
low-emissions scenario with global warming of <+1.5 °C (Paris 
Agreement,  SSP1-1.9),  a  medium  scenario  with  an  average 
warming of +2.5 °C (intermediate, SSP2-4.5) to a >+4 °C (fos-
sil-fueled development, SSP5-8.5) scenario. 

The  wide  range  of  scenarios  which  could  occur  over  the  long-
term planning period and beyond covers plausible risks and un-
certainties. Physical as well as transitory risks and opportunities 
are taken into account in internal management and in the prep-
aration  of  the  Group  Financial  Statements.*  » Accounting  policies, 
assumptions, judgments and estimations 

Physical climate risks 
The three IPCC climate scenarios set out above form the basis 
for the BMW Group’s risk model for physical climate risks in the 
entire value chain. To assess these scenarios, site-specific risk 
data provided by an external insurance company are used for all 
relevant BMW Group and supplier sites for the medium and long 
term. 

* The attainment of the Paris Agreement targets is part of the BMW Group’s long-term corporate 
planning, meaning that the low-emission scenario is incorporated into the assumptions for the 
Group Financial Statements in accordance with ESRS E1 AR 15. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
100 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

Risk-specific  data,  such  as  global  weather  and  climate  data,  a 
digital elevation model and registered historical events, are used 
for the various physical risks. The spatial resolution is defined by 
the finest available representation of the relevant output data. 

In terms of physical climate-related risks, the periods mentioned 
above cover the long-term strategic corporate planning period as 
well as the expected service life of buildings and facilities. 

For the BMW Group, physical climate risks may result in damage 
to  assets  such  as  buildings,  vehicles  or  parts.  Climate-related 
events  may  also  lead  to  downtime  at  BMW Group’s  own  or  at 
suppliers’ sites. Physical climate risks are analysed on a location-
specific basis, for example based on geo-coordinates of the rel-
evant BMW Group sites and supplier sites. The average annual 
expected damage loss is calculated for each BMW Group or sup-
plier site using the underlying location-related hazard situation, 
its exposure, and site-related vulnerabilities. 

The risk posed by climate change at the respective BMW Group 
or  supplier  site  is  modelled  both  in  the  medium  and  long  term 
(time dimension) in accordance with the scenarios (intensity di-
mension)  of  the  globally  recognized  IPCC  Report.  Physical  cli-
mate  risks  also  increase  for  the  BMW Group  particularly  in  the 
long-term period for 2050 and beyond within the context of the 
>+4°C scenario (SSP5-8.5). This affects both BMW Group pro-
duction sites and supplier sites. Were such an event to occur, it 
could lead to production interruptions at individual sites. Updates 
on risks identified in climate scenarios are always taken into ac-
count  when  planning  new  construction  and  conversion 
measures. 

After considering the physical climate risks in the various scenar-
ios, the materiality of the risks was assessed in the overarching 
materiality  analysis.  The  BMW Group  has  implemented  a  wide 
range of measures to mitigate these risks, so that no physical cli-
mate risks as defined by the sense of the ESRS are categorised 
as material. All material climate-related risks are transitory risks. 

Transitory climate risks and opportunities 
Transitory  risks  arise  from  the  transition  to  a  low-emissions 
economy and are assessed for the medium-term using climate-
related  risk  drivers  and  qualitative  expert  assessments.  These 
risks  become  particularly  apparent  when  conditions  change 
more quickly or differently than expected. 

The  potential  short-term  effects  of  climate  change  are  already 
included  in  the  short-term  risks.  All  short-term  risks  from  the 
BMW Group’s own operations and from the upstream and down-
stream value chain are assessed for their transitory climate risks. 
Risks identified as being both material and climate-relevant are 
included in the scenario analysis. The potential development of 
climate-related transitory risks is assessed, as described above, 
for a medium-term period (2036) and for three global warming 
scenarios.  It  is  assumed  that  measures  to  combat  climate 
change will be less effective in higher scenarios than in a 1.5°C 
scenario,  for  example.  An  assessment  is  performed  based  on 
this premise. 

The BMW Group also recognises economic opportunities in the 
orientation  towards  the  1.5°C  path.  These  arise  from  adjust-
ments  to  products,  production  processes  and  the  value  chain. 
The opportunities are derived from the climate risk analysis for 
the  medium-term  period  in  the  three  different  scenarios  and 
evaluated  as  part  of  the  materiality  assessment.  Opportunities 
for the BMW Group are arising particularly from the demand for 
low-emission  products  generated  by  the  goal  of  slowing  down 
climate change, efficiency and transport potential in the carbon 
footprint in the upstream value chain, as well as the increasing 
range of BMW Group drivetrain variants and the resulting grow-
ing market share among environmentally conscious buyers. 

The  potential  transitory  risks  are  deemed  the  highest  over  the 
medium-term as a result of the rapid, potentially unforeseeable 
developments in the Paris Agreement global warming scenario. 
It cannot be ruled out that more decisive measures will have to 
be  taken  globally  in  the  next  few  years  in  order  to  achieve  the 

<+1.5°C target. As the scenario analysis demonstrates, regula-
tory requirements introduced at short notice may enter into force, 
which could have an impact on products, production and supply 
chains. This also includes changes to calculation and disclosure 
requirements,  which  may  change  the  target  contribution  of 
measures taken. In addition, competition and demand, especially 
for electric vehicles, may change in a 1.5°C scenario. 

At present, the BMW Group’s strategy is consistent with the tran-
sition  to  a  carbon-neutral  economy 
in  accordance  with 
ESRS E1 AR 12(d).  

Impact, risks and opportunities in relation to environmental pollu-
tion 
The identification of significant impacts, risks and opportunities 
for the topic of environmental pollution takes place at a overarch-
ing level as part of the materiality analysis ↗ Materiality Assessment. 
Information on strategies, targets, measures and metrics is de-
scribed in ↗ Reduction of Environmental Pollution. 

Specifically with regard to the issue of environmental pollution, 
sites  with  a  particular  influence  on  the  BMW Group’s  business 
activities are examined more closely. A risk assessment is per-
formed  for  each  site  identified  as  having  a  particular  influence. 
For example, the Company’s sites are generally subject to an en-
vironmental impact assessment and, depending on the risks in-
volved,  certification  on  a  case-by-case  basis.  Sites  with  a  high 
risk and a high level of damage are subject to measures to re-
duce potential damage. New sites are assessed for impacts and 
risks  using  environmental  due  diligence,  environmental  impact 
analysis, climate risk assessments and, where required, baseline 
assessments  of  biodiversity.  Risk  mitigation  measures  derived 
from these assessments are implemented as required. Further-
more, the BMW Group Environmental Statement includes both a 
qualitative assessment of the environmental impact of manufac-
turing technologies at the various sites and, where available, the 
inclusion and assessment of topics concerning other emissions. 
By  taking  this  systematic  approach,  the  BMW Group  ensures 
that the impacts, opportunities and risks are recorded in full and 
assessed accordingly. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
101 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

This includes all sites that require an environmental assessment 
and approval under national law (for example the Federal Immis-
sion Control Act [BIMSchG] in Germany). In practice, this includes 
all production sites, component production, the Research and In-
novation Centre (FIZ), test tracks and distribution centres. Other 
sites  such  as  offices  or  branches  may  require  country-specific 
environmental  assessments,  but  are  usually  examined  only  as 
part  of  building  permits  due  to  their  lower  environmental  rele-
vance. These building permits also include environmental impact 
assessments in accordance with country-specific laws. 

A list of the material environmental effects is provided for all tech-
nologies  and  indirect  environmental  effects  (for  example  em-
ployee commuting) in the ↗ BMW Group Environmental Statement. 

Water-related impacts, risks and opportunities 
The materiality assessment also encompasses the identification 
and assessment of the impacts, risks and opportunities relating 
to water and marine resources. The LEAP approach1 is applied 
in this context. For additional environmental information, please 
refer  to  ↗ Holistic Environmental Management within the BMW Group,  and 
specifically regarding the topic of water, ↗ Responsible Use of Water 
Resources. 

Water and marine resources were identified in the first phase. Im-
pacts related to water and marine resources that have been as-
sessed include: 

—  Water: consumption of surface and groundwater as well as 

withdrawals and discharges 

—  Marine resources: extraction and use of these resources and 

related economic activities 

In this phase, the Aqueduct tool2 was used to identify the geo-
graphic areas affected by water-related risks, along with the ar-
eas where there is an interface with marine resources that could 
lead  to  significant  impacts  and  dependencies.  The  following 
were considered: 

—  BMW Group sites and the associated upstream and down-

stream activities along the value chain 
—  Sites in areas subject to high water stress 
—  Sectors or business lines that interface with water or marine 

resources at these priority locations 

In the second phase, the materiality of the impacts and depend-
encies were assessed using river basins as the relevant level for 
the site assessment and combining this with an operational risk 
assessment. The Company took into account the criteria of the 
Water Framework Directive 2000/60/EG and its guidelines. 

The following steps were undertaken with regard to the sites se-
lected in the first phase: 

— 

Identification of business processes and activities that lead 
to  impacts  and  dependencies  on  water  and  marine  re-
sources 

—  Assessment of the severity and probability of occurrence of 

positive and negative impacts 

In the third phase, risks and opportunities were assessed. The 
basis is created from the results of the first two phases, including:  

—  Transitory  risks  and  opportunities: 

legal  and  political 
changes,  technological  progress,  shifts  in  the  market  and 
reputational risk 

—  Physical risks: water scarcity, water stress and deterioration 

in water quality 

—  Opportunities:  resource  efficiency,  market  diversification 

and financing opportunities 

The analysis concluded that the consumption of water is material 
both in the BMW Group’s own operations and in the upstream 
supply  chain.  Measures  to  reduce  water  consumption  and  use 
alternative sources of water, such as rainwater, were developed 
specifically  for  the  Company’s  own  facilities  as  early  as  2009, 
when sustainability targets were first introduced. Please refer to 
↗ Social and Environmental Responsibility in the Supplier Network for infor-
mation on water withdrawal and concepts for the sustainable use 
of water. 

The  BMW Group’s  production  sites,  vehicle  test  facilities  and 
joint ventures located in areas subject to water stress are indi-
cated in the table. 

1 The LEAP approach is an integrated environmental assessment process comprising four steps: 

Locate, Evaluate, Assess and Prepare. 

2 The Aqueduct tool is a database maintained by the World Resources Institute (WIR) to map data 
on water risks and ESG risks, among other things. The database was used to compare the BMW 
Group’s sites with locations subject to water risk. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
102 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

Sites by water stress level* 

Water stress level 

  Site(s) 

  Country 

Extremely high water stress 

High water stress 

Medium to high water stress 

Granada 
Oxnard 
Chennai 
Rosslyn 

Berlin 
Leipzig 
Miramas 
Oxford 
Swindon 
Spartanburg 
Dadong 
Tiexi 
Rayong 

Eisenach 
Wackersdorf 
Goodwood 
San Luis Potosí 
Zhangjiagang 

Spain 
USA 
India 
South Africa 

Germany 
Germany 
France 
UK 
UK 
USA 
China 
China 
Thailand 

Germany 
Germany 
UK 
Mexico 
China 

Low to medium water stress 

  Hams Hall 

  UK 

Low water stress 

Munich 
Dingolfing 
Landshut 
Regensburg 
Eching 
Aschheim 
Steyr 
Arjeplog 
Araquari 
Manaus 

Germany 
Germany 
Germany 
Germany 
Germany 
Germany 
Austria 
Sweden 
Brazil 
Brazil 

* The share of water consumption at non-production-related sites in areas subject to water stress 
excluding vehicle testing facilities is relatively low, which is why the other non-production-related 
sites are not listed separately.  

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
103 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

M A T E R I A L   I M P A C T S ,   R I S K S   A N D  
O P P O R T U N I T I E S   A N D   T H E I R  
I N T E R A C T I O N   W I T H   S T R A T E G Y   A N D  
B U S I N E S S   M O D E L  

Description of material impacts, risks and opportunities and 
their link to strategy and business model 
As part of the preparation of the 2024 Sustainability Statement, 
the material impacts, risks and opportunities were evaluated for 
the first time in accordance with the double materiality require-
ments  for  sustainability  topics.  A  total  of  85  material  impacts, 
risks and opportunities were identified. These can be assigned to 
the  BMW Group’s  business  model  and  economic  activities,  as 
well as to the upstream or downstream value chain. The material 
impacts, risks and opportunities can be categorised under the 31 
sustainability sub-topics and sub-sub-topics defined in ESRS 1 
(see figure).  

A full outline and explanation of all material sustainability-related 
impacts,  risks  and  opportunities  identified  can  be  found  in  the 
↗ List of material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities. The overview also in-
cludes a representation of the effect that material negative and 
positive impacts have on people and the environment, or could 
have in the case of potential impacts. For each impact, risk and 
opportunity listed, it also indicates whether or not they are also 
addressed by company-specific disclosures. The time horizons 
in  which  the  material  impacts,  risks  and  opportunities  are  ex-
pected to occur are also included. Most of the material impacts 
have already materialised. 

Because  the  methodology  for  the  materiality  assessment  has 
been adjusted to reflect the first-time application of the ESRS re-
quirements, it is not possible to make a comparison of the mate-
rial impacts, risks and opportunities with the previous year. 

Material sustainability topics of BMW Group for Financial Year 2024 following ESRS 

 E (Environmental) 

   S (Social) 

   G (Governance) 

  E1 Climate Change  

      S1 Own Workforce 

      G1 Business Conduct 

        Political engagement and  

lobbying activities 

      Corruption and bribery – Prevention 
and detection including training 

  Climate change adaptation 

  Climate change mitigation  

  Energy 

  E2 Pollution 

  Pollution of water 

  Pollution of soil 

  Microplastic 

        Health and safety 
        Gender equality and equal pay for  

work of equal 

      Diversity 

      Training and skills development 

        Secure employment 
        Social dialogue 

      S2 Workers in the value chain 

  E3 Water and Marine Resources 

      Working time 

  Water consumption 

  Water withdrawals 

  E4 Biodiversity 

  Direct exploitation 

  E5 Circular Economy 

  Resources inflows, including  
resource use 

  Resource outflows related to  
products and services 

  Waste 

        Freedom of association, including  
the existence of work councils 

      Health and safety 

      Training and skills development 

        Measures against violence and  
harassment in the workplace 

      Child labour 

      Forced labour 

      S4 Consumers and End-Users 

        Access to (quality) information 
        Privacy 
      Health and safety 

      Protection of children 

        Upstream material          Own Operations material          Downstream material                                                            Materiality assessment requires the consideration of the total value chain. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
       
 
 
   
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
 
         
 
 
 
 
         
 
 
 
 
         
 
 
 
 
         
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
 
       
         
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
     
       
 
 
 
 
 
         
 
 
 
 
 
         
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
         
 
 
 
 
         
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
         
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
         
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
 
104 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

As part of the environmental analysis, material sustainability-re-
lated impacts, risks and opportunities are also evaluated in terms 
of their effect on the strategy and business model, underlying as-
sumptions are reviewed, and strategic goals are aligned accord-
ingly » Environmental Analysis. The BMW Group’s strategy forms the 
baseline for its consistent focus on sustainability » Cornerstones of 
the Strategy. With its products, the BMW Group is contributing to 
sustainable development and, with its business activities, aims 
to create a connection between business, the environment and 
society. The strategy’s key areas of focus take into account ma-
terial  impacts,  risks  and  opportunities  across  the  entire  value 
chain. This involves, in particular, all drivetrain technologies with 
a  strong  focus  on  electromobility,  digitalisation  to  strengthen 
customer interaction and products, and increasing sustainability 
along the entire value chain, including circularity. The heteroge-
neous  nature  and  increasing  complexity  of  the  regulatory  re-
quirements  and  the  material  impacts,  risks  and  opportunities 
that arise as a result are incorporated into the BMW Group’s po-
sition and strategy development process. An overview of how the 
BMW Group takes the current and expected future effects of key 
material impacts, risks and opportunities into account in its busi-
ness model, value chain and corporate strategy can be found in 
» Position - What does the BMW Group stand for?, » Direction –What drives the 
BMW Group?,  » Strategic approach –Where is the BMW Group heading? and 
» Collaboration –How does the BMW Group achieve this?. 

Only  in  certain  cases  do  material  impacts  arise  out  of  the 
BMW Group’s  strategy  and  its  business  model.  They  arise  pri-
marily from the business activities and relationships of the BMW 
Group.  This  applies  particularly  to  material  impacts  in  the  up-
stream  and  downstream  value  chain.  The  chapters  » Position  - 
What  does  the  BMW Group  stand  for?,  » Direction  –What  drives  the 
BMW Group?,  » Strategic approach –Where is the BMW Group heading? and 
» Collaboration  –How  does  the  BMW Group  achieve  this?  discuss  the  key 
strategic  priorities  and  areas  of  focus  relating  to  material  im-
pacts, risks and opportunities. The BMW Group directly and indi-
rectly generates greenhouse gas emissions worldwide through 

upstream  processes,  the  procurement  and  processing  of  raw 
materials,  products  and  services  for  development  and  produc-
tion, and the supply and use of its own products and services. By 
offering  electrified  vehicles (BEV,  PHEV,  FCEV)  and  expanding 
the  use  of  cost-effective  CO2e-free  energy,  including  through 
PPAs, the BMW Group is contributing to progressive decarboni-
sation  ↗ Position  –  What  does  the  BMW Group  stand  for?.  Strategic 
measures  to  reduce  direct  and  indirect  greenhouse  gas  emis-
sions worldwide may necessitate adjustments within the supply 
chain and exert pressure on suppliers to adapt.  

The circular economy is a key component of the BMW Group’s 
strategy. Incorporating the principles of the circular economy into 
business  models  and  products  may  be  an  important  step  to-
wards reducing the use of natural and limited resources. Reduc-
ing the use of primary materials contributes to the reduction of 
CO2 emissions and the preservation of biodiversity, and mitigates 
the impacts on the environment and society that are associated 
with  the  extraction  and  processing  of  primary  materials.  For 
these reasons, the BMW Group is taking further steps to increase 
the  proportion  of  recycled  materials  in  its  products  » Strategic 
approach – Where is the BMW Group heading?.  

With regard to its own workforce, diversity is an important ele-
ment  of  the  BMW Group’s  competitiveness.  The  proportion  of 
women in management positions is a strategic target variable. 
The BMW Group consistently supports its employees to acquire 
new professional qualifications and to achieve their personal de-
velopment goals. The BMW Group supports the training and fur-
ther education of its employees and helps them to remain pro-
ductive  by  providing  initial  and  further  training  at  all  locations 
» Collaboration – How does the BMW Group achieve this?, ↗ Own workforce. 

All other material impacts identified do not arise from the strat-
egy or business model of the BMW Group and also do not have 
a  material  effect  on  their  future  development.  » The  BMW Group 
Strategy 

Strengthening the resilience of its strategy and business model 
in terms of managing material impacts and risks and making use 
of  material  opportunities  is  a  key  concern  of  the  BMW Group. 
Therefore,  it  is  important  to  recognise  changes  in  the  environ-
ment  early  on,  consider  alternative  development  scenarios,  ef-
fectively manage risks and take advantage of opportunities that 
may arise from such changes » Risks and Opportunities. For this rea-
son, the resilience analysis is conducted across the organisation 
and includes all topics of relevance to the BMW Group. This also 
includes sustainability topics and related risks and opportunities. 
A  regularly  updated  analysis  of  the  environment  based  on  se-
lected  and  relevant  topics  also  forms  the  basis  for  this 
» Environmental Analysis. This also includes an assessment of politi-
cal and regulatory framework conditions » Economy, » Politics.  

The BMW Group aims to reduce the influence of exogenous fac-
tors, particularly those related to sustainability, by expanding the 
resilience  of  its  global  supply  chains.  » Expanding  resilient  supply 
chains, » 
Purchasing battery cells. Forward-looking risk management 
helps to strengthen the resilience of the supplier network. » Risk 
management  in  purchasing.  Digitalisation  across  the  entire  supply 
chain  provides  the  basis  for  sustainable  and  resilient  supply 
chain management. » Digitalisation in the supply chain.  

The resilience analysis relating to biodiversity and ecosystems is 
discussed in ↗ Resilience analysis. 

Current financial effects of material risks and opportunities 
Competition in the electrified vehicle market intensified in the re-
porting  year.  The  financial  effects  of  this  development  are  dis-
cussed in » Earnings Performance of the BMW Group.  

Regulatory restrictions mean that certain energy sources, such 
as  biogas,  can  no  longer  be  used  for  emission  reduction 
measures.  Hedging  activities  ensured  that  financial  effects  for 
the BMW Group were completely avoided. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
105 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

No material risks or opportunities have been identified for which 
there is a significant probability of occurrence in 2025 that would 
result in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of the as-
sets  and  liabilities  recognised  in  the  corresponding  financial 
statements. 

S T A K E H O L D E R   E N G A G E M E N T  

The BMW Group attaches great importance to regular, frank and 
transparent dialogue with its stakeholders. The goal is to build 
trust,  increase  transparency  and  awareness,  and  facilitate  the 
transfer of knowledge by providing information and opportunities 
for dialogue.  

To this end, the Company revised its ↗ Stakeholder Engagement Policy 
in  2024,  and  in  doing  so  also  reviewed  and  redefined  its  key 
stakeholders. A distinction is made between affected stakehold-
ers and users of sustainability statements. In addition, the indi-
vidual  stakeholders  are  summarised  in  stakeholder  groups. 
Stakeholders  are  affected  directly  or  indirectly  by  our  business 
activities, while users of sustainability statements mainly include 
consumers of general reporting – for example, investors or busi-
ness partners. 

The  BMW Group  promotes  the  exchange  of  ideas  and  infor-
mation with stakeholders in all of its business activities and main-
tains an ongoing dialogue with them in individual discussions, at 
conferences, or in response to specific queries. Material sustain-
ability-related topics such as climate change, biodiversity or the 
transition to a circular economy, as well as working conditions in 
their  own  business  area  or  other  employee-related  topics,  are 
also discussed. The form of engagement taken depends on the 
initial situation. In addition to specific dialogues and interactions 
with stakeholders, for example during London Climate Week, the 
BMW Group also regularly participates in public and political dis-
cussions and engages in intensive dialogue with capital market 
participants.  This  approach  helps  to  establish  lasting  relation-
ships, to inform the BMW Group about its impacts on (affected) 
stakeholders  and  to  enhance  processes  for  future  stakeholder 
engagement  activities.  Incorporating  a  range  of  external  view-
points and expectations helps further develop the strategy » The 
BMW Group  Strategy  and  promotes  the  innovative  strength  of  the 
BMW Group. 

The BMW Group uses the feedback and results from its stake-
holder  engagement  in  its  environmental  and  trend  analyses, 
which  are  in  turn  incorporated  into  the  development  of  its 

corporate and business department strategies. To this end, the 
HR strategy is reviewed annually using a comprehensive internal 
and external analysis of the environment and the company, and 
adjusted accordingly as and when required. Market research, a 
component of the corporate strategy, is conducted in the form of 
global surveys to determine customer needs and expectations. 
The findings from these and other surveys and analyses, includ-
ing input from experts, form the basis for strategic recommenda-
tions  for  the  entire  Company,  individual  departments  and 
BMW Group brands. 

The Board of Management keeps itself regularly informed at its 
meetings on feedback from stakeholders and their views, either 
by  means  of  separate  documents  or  via  direct  dialogue  with 
stakeholders such as investors or political decision makers. Brief-
ings by in-house departments supplement the information pro-
vided to the Board of Management, especially before attending 
major  events  such  as  OECD  conferences  or  Annual  General 
Meetings. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board of BMW AG 
also maintains regular contact with stakeholders. Moreover, the 
members of the Supervisory Board of BMW AG attend the An-
nual General Meeting of BMW AG, and also interact with stake-
holders as part of their other activities and mandates. 

The BMW Group also takes account of its most important exter-
nal stakeholders in its materiality assessment. For further infor-
mation,  see  ↗ Procedure  and  methodological  basis  for  the  materiality  
assessment. 

its  most 

important  stakeholder  groups, 

As  one  of 
the 
BMW Group’s workforce plays an active role in shaping the Com-
pany’s  future  direction.  The  BMW Group  conducts  a  company-
wide  employee  survey  every  two  years  to  measure  the  perfor-
mance  of  the  organisation  and  the  general  mood  among  its 
workforce. Employees also have a key opportunity to participate 
through the company ideas management system, which can be 
used to submit ideas outside of their area of responsibility. The 
due diligence processes for respecting human rights and related 
environmental standards apply to our own business, our suppli-
ers, and our other business partners. ↗ Collective bargaining coverage 
and social dialogue 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
106 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

All stakeholders - from customers to scientists to affected com-
munities – have the opportunity to connect with the BMW Group 
through  various  communication  channels.  In  addition  to  using 
the Group’s main email addresses, stakeholders can report com-
pliance-related  concerns  through  the  ↗ BMW  Group  Compliance  
Contact or the ↗ BMW Group SpeakUP Line. The BMW Group SpeakUP 
Line can be reached in all countries in which BMW  Group em-
ployees work via local, toll-free telephone numbers in more than 
30 languages. All reports received by the BMW Group through 
these communication channels are carefully reviewed in compli-
ance with applicable regulations. In particular, the BMW  Group 
observes the prohibition on penalising whistleblowers acting in 
good faith. 

Likewise, the BMW Group works either directly with the affected 
communities or with their local representatives. For example, lo-
cal stakeholders are closely involved in the planning of the new 
assembly  plant  for  high-voltage  batteries  in  Irlbach-Strasskir-
chen. Through a variety of measures, the Company has created 
transparency  and  opportunities  for  dialogue  and  has  therefore 
attached  great  importance  to  taking  the  interests  of  local  resi-
dents and communities fully into account and working together 
to find a solution. In addition, BMW Group locations have desig-
nated  contacts  who  are  responsible  for  maintaining  relations 
with local stakeholders. They serve as the first point of contact 
between the Company and its neighbours. Maintaining an ongo-
ing  dialogue  with  civil  society,  affected  communities  and  other 
relevant stakeholders in the supply chain is another key compo-
nent in our approach to dealing with critical raw materials. The 
↗ BMW Group Supplier Code of Conduct  stipulates  that  affected  (local) 
communities,  and  indigenous peoples  especially,  must also be 
taken into account and protected across the supply chain. As part 
of the responsible management of raw materials and with a view 
to  mitigating  social  impacts,  specific  areas  of  focus  have  been 
identified that, for example, justify local involvement. To help en-
sure  compliance  with  social  and  environmental  standards,  we 
have  put  due  diligence  processes  in  place,  both  across  the  or-
ganisation and in our relationships with suppliers and other busi-
ness  partners.  The  Purchasing  and  Supplier  Network  depart-
ment  is  responsible  for  developing  the  procedures  and  imple-
menting  due  diligence  processes  in  the  supply  chain.  In  2024, 
this responsibility was firmly embedded in our purchasing strat-
egy and strengthened by the establishment of a dedicated de-
partment. ↗ Social and Environmental Responsibility in the Supplier Network 

The  BMW Group  stays  abreast  of  the  latest  scientific  findings 
and, to this end, engages in a targeted dialogue with scientists 
about sustainability targets in a range of different formats. The 
International  Sustainable  Mobility  Research  Platform  (ISMO)  is 
an international research partnership established in 2024. In ad-
dition  to  the  BMW Group,  it  includes  four  internationally  re-
nowned universities: the University of Cambridge in the UK, the 
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg in Germany, 
Harvard University in the USA, and Tsinghua University in China. 
The objective of the collaboration is to conduct research into sus-
tainability and develop scientifically sound approaches that will 
help  develop  our  strategy.  The  Board  of  Management  of 
BMW AG plays an active role in the partnership and will  be in-
volved in discussing the research results twice a year from 2025. 
The first meeting took place in 2024. The ISMO makes a signif-
icant contribution by keeping management informed about im-
portant  changes  in  the  operating  environment  and  supporting 
the development of business strategies in line with the latest sci-
entific insights. 

The BMW Group is also actively engaged in both industry-spe-
cific and cross-industry initiatives. These include the Branchen-
dialog Automobilindustrie, the Supply Chain Sustainability Work-
ing Group of the German Association of the Automotive Industry 
(VDA), the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), and Drive Sus-
tainability. Some of these are multi-stakeholder initiatives involv-
ing companies as well as trade unions and NGOs that represent 
the interests of value chain workers. The BMW Group’s involve-
ment in these initiatives is ongoing. The BMW Group is involved 
in RBA Voices, a standardised, cross-industry grievance mecha-
nism available for download from the Apple App Store and the 
Google Play Store. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
107 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

Stakeholder groups and exemplary forms of dialogue  

Politics

Dummy 3

Media

Networks

Civil society

Suppliers

Dummy 1

Dummy 2

Discussion rounds/ round tables, working groups/mobility council, 
association meeting 

Employees

Partners

Financial world

Lectures at and cooperation with schools and universities/chairs, 
mobility council, ISMO 

Customers

Science

Trade fairs/ press conferences, press information/ 
press releases, presentations  

Discussions with consumer bodies, 
customer satisfaction surveys and market research  
(e.g. Corporate Reputation Study), My BMW App 

Participation of company experts in committees and working 
groups, memberships in initiatives and associations 

Conferences for/with investors and analysts,  
financial statement press conference 

BMW Group award for social responsibility 

Dialogues with dealership organizations of the markets and  
importers, partner academy 

BMW Group in  
dialogue 

Supplier theme days 

D
u
Dialogue tools for all stakeholder groups: 
m
m
Dialogues, one-to-one meetings, 
y
2
BMW Welt/BMW museum/plant tours, 
events, general meeting 
press releases, company website, 
brand website, Social Media, rankings, 
conferences, industry/sector dialogues, studies 
Speak-up Hotline, 
policies und statements, quarterly and annual report 

Various dialogue formats 

Internal communication, dialogues with managers,  
idea management process, employee survey, BMW Group  
Academy, works council meeting, collective agreements and  
employment contracts with trade unions 

* Affected stakeholders.

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
108 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

P R I N C I P L E S   O F   G O V E R N A N C E   B Y   T H E  
B O A R D   O F   M A N A G E M E N T   A N D  
S U P E R V I S O R Y   B O A R D  

BMW
AG  is  a  stock  corporation  (Aktiengesellschaft)  within  the 
meaning of the German Stock Corporation Act. It has an execu-
tive Board of Management and a Supervisory Board that moni-
tors  how  the  Company  is  managed  by  the  Board  of  Manage-
ment. 

Board of Management – Duties, diversity, expertise 
The  Board  of  Management  has  overall  responsibility  for  the 
management of BMW AG. It defines the strategy and resource 
framework  and  takes  actions  to  implement  the  strategy.  The 
Board of Management decides on product and customer-related 
issues  of  particular  importance  and  consequence  to  the  BMW 
Group, as well as on automobile product strategy. The Board of 
Management incorporates various sustainability matters into the 
decisions taken at its meetings and addresses the material im-
pacts,  risks  and  opportunities  associated  with  the  Company’s 
course of business. It also monitors the key sustainability-related 
indicators and targets as well as department-specific sustaina-
bility  activities  and  developments.  Details  are  available  in  the 
↗ Rules of Procedure of the Board of Management of BMW AG. 

As  at  31 December  2024,  14%  of  the  seven  members  of  the 
Board of Management were female and 86% were male based 
on the composition principles and taking into account the ESRS 
reporting obligations. 

In addition to the overall responsibility of the Board of Manage-
ment,  each  member  of  the  Board  of  Management  is  inde-
pendently responsible for the material impacts, risks and oppor-
tunities in their respective department. 

To  ensure  that  the  Board  of  Management  has  the  necessary 
level  of  competence  and  diversity,  the  Supervisory  Board  has 
adopted a competency and diversity policy for the composition of 
the Board of Management, which is also aligned with the recom-
mendations  contained  in  the  German  Corporate  Governance 
Code (DCGK). In view of the fact that the Board of Management 

is a representative body of the Company, the Supervisory Board 
is  careful  to  consider  diversity-related  issues  when  assessing 
which  candidates  are  most  suitable  for  a  seat  on the  Board of 
Management. “Diversity” in the context of the decision-making 
process is understood by the Supervisory Board to encompass 
various complementary individual profiles and work and life ex-
periences at both national and international level, as well as the 
appropriate representation of genders. In reaching its decisions, 
the Supervisory Board also considers the following factors: 

—  Board  of  Management  members  need  to  have  a  long-
standing track record of management experience, ideally in 
a variety of professional fields. An adequate mix of different 
professional and management skills is sought here. 

—  At  least  two  members  should have  international  manage-

ment experience.  

—  At least two members of the Board of Management should 

have a technical background.  

—  Collectively, the Board of Management should have exten-
sive experience in the fields of individual mobility, develop-
ment,  production,  sales,  finances  and  personnel  manage-
ment. 

The Board of Management must comprise at least one man and 
one woman. The Board of Management deals with the impacts, 
risks and opportunities arising from business development on a 
continuous basis. In addition to addressing reports related to the 
latest business developments, the Board of Management regu-
larly  discusses  the  current  market  environment,  financial  and 
non-financial risks, the Group risk strategy and the effectiveness 
of the risk management system and the internal control system. 
The Board of Management also deals with the development of 
the workforce, diversity, and ongoing qualification and retraining 
measures several times a year as part of the transformation pro-
cess ↗ Just Transition - Developing expertise for the future. The Board of 
Management is kept up to date about ongoing compliance activ-
ities and potential risks at regular intervals via the Chief Compli-
ance Officer’s compliance reports. In addition to discussing the 
audit results regarding the appropriateness and effectiveness of 
the Compliance Management System (CMS), the Board of Man-
agement also discusses the structural and organisational devel-
opment  of  the  Group  Compliance  Management  System  (CMS) 

and  the  implementation  status  of  corporate  due  diligence  re-
quirements relating to respect for human rights and associated 
environmental standards along the value chain. In addition, the 
Board  of  Management  holds  regular  discussions  on  the  pro-
cesses and actions involved in implementing new regulatory re-
quirements and ensuring compliance with external reporting re-
quirements in the area of sustainability, including the extent to 
which CSRD/ESRS requirements have been implemented.  

Sustainability  considerations  are  therefore  integrated  into  the 
BMW Group’s corporate structures and processes in a compre-
hensive and holistic manner which involves decision makers at 
various levels. A decentralised approach is taken to integrate the 
Company’s  strategic  objectives.  Defined  specialist  functions  in 
each of the Board departments are responsible for anchoring the 
targets within the respective organisational structure, measuring 
their achievement, and ensuring compliance with the strategy. 

The  strategy  is  translated  into  an  annually  revised,  long-term 
corporate  plan  using  a  control  loop-based  planning  and  man-
agement system. A target system monitors their progress, and 
reports on the targets and performance indicators agreed for the 
reporting year are submitted to the Board of Management and 
Supervisory  Board  on  a  regular  basis.  The  Board  of  Manage-
ment defines the BMW Group’s strategic objectives related to the 
sustainability topics. The Sustainability and Mobility function en-
sures the high level management of sustainability topics as part 
of the Group strategy. It identifies areas where the Company po-
tentially needs to take action, defines the targets to be achieved, 
and  prepares  corresponding  resolutions  to  the  Board  of  Man-
agement. The function is also responsible for ensuring that sus-
tainability issues and all relevant material impacts, risks and op-
portunities are considered in all material decisions made by the 
Company,  including  at  the  level  of  the  Board  of  Management. 
This includes significant transactions. The function submits pro-
gress reports on the BMW Group’s overarching sustainability tar-
gets to the Board of Management at least three times a year. The 
targets and measures with regard to reducing CO2e emissions in 
all scopes, the circular economy, environmental and social stand-
ards  and  social  sustainability  are  presented,  and  the  strategic 
and operational implementation status is discussed. When tar-
gets are not met, suitable actions are discussed and approved if 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
109 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

necessary. In addition, the Board of Management and the Super-
visory  Board  regularly  discuss  the  further  development  of  the 
various key topics from the sustainability strategy. The identified 
material impacts, risks and opportunities are also taken into con-
sideration. Even though these discussions are informative in na-
ture, they also include decision papers, each orientated towards 
current thematic developments. The results of the materiality as-
sessment,  including  the  material  impacts,  risks  and  opportuni-
ties, are presented to the Board of Management by the Group 
Reporting function for discussion.  ↗ Materiality Assessment,  ↗ List of 
material  Impacts,  Risks  and  Opportunities.  Material  impacts,  risks  and 
opportunities are also discussed by the Board of Management 
on a regular basis when updating the environmental analysis.  

The  Board  of  Management  sets  the  organisational,  structural 
and  content-related  framework  for  business  conduct,  ensures 
that it is dovetailed with and integrated into the Company’s man-
agement and governance systems, and receives reports on their 
implementation. This is also true for the topics of Combating cor-
ruption and bribery and Political engagement and lobbying activ-
ities  ↗ Governance Information.  The  Supervisory  Board  receives  re-
ports on business conduct as part of its monitoring activities.  

In  addition,  the  Board  of  Management of  BMW  AG  has  estab-
lished the following committees with the participation of Board of 
Management members to address selected topics of particular 
importance in greater depth and across departments: 

—  The  Board  of  Management’s  Digitalisation  Committee 
(VA-D): The VA-D advises and makes cross-departmental 
decisions on all material issues related to improving and dig-
italising the BMW Group’s corporate processes, and thereby 
makes a decisive contribution to ensuring that the Group’s 
performance  is  guided  by  its  strategy.  In  this  context,  the 
VA-D deals with overarching IT projects, IT platforms and IT 
initiatives, in addition to process-specific and digital perfor-
mance  levers  and  key  performance  indicators  (KPIs).  The 
VA-D  also  consistently  addresses  obstacles  to  transfor-
mation within the Company and defines the transformation 

Skills matrix Board of Management 

Experience 

(Access to) expertise 

In relevant markets 

In relevant areas of competence 

Sustainability 

Europe 

US 

China 

Other 

Individual mobility 

Corporate strategy 

Technologies 

Production 

Sales 

Finance 

Climate change 

Pollution 

Water and marine resources 

Biodiversity and ecosystems 

Circular economy and resource use  

Own workforce 

Personnel management 

Workers in the value chain 

Digitalisation 

Supply chain 

Development 

Consumers and end-users 

Business conduct 

focus, timing and resources, as well as the financial control 
model for platforms/data. Moreover, the VA-D is responsi-
ble for prioritising/financing innovations in the area of digi-
talisation as well as strategic recruiting measures and qual-
ification  programmes  to  ensure  our  employees  have  rele-
vant skills. 

—  The Board of Management’s Senior Executives Committee 
(VA-F): The VA-F deals with issues affecting managers of 
the BMW Group, either in their entirety or individually, such 
as the management structure, employees with particularly 
high levels of potential, and the appointment of senior exec-
utives (OFK). The relevant specialist functions present infor-
mation about general HR-related issues and developments 
to  the  VA-F  so  that  the  future  direction  of  the  Company’s 
personnel can be set as early as possible. In this context, the 

VA-F can act as a decision-making body, issue advice, make 
recommendations, or act in a preparatory function, depend-
ing on the circumstances. 

—  The  Board  of  Management’s  Operations  Committee 
(VA-O): The VA-O provides advice and makes cross-depart-
mental decisions related to automobile product projects fol-
lowing  confirmation  by  the  Board  of  Management.  In  this 
context, the VA-O  deals  with the  operational  implementa-
tion of vehicle projects, strategic modules from the develop-
ment process to the start of production/market launch, on-
going  series  production  and  further  development.  In  addi-
tion,  the  VA-O  monitors  the  objectives  set  for  focus  and 
quality  topics  for  automobile  product  projects  and  shapes 
the procedural framework for its area of responsibility across 
departments. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
110 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

In December 2024, members of the Board of Management were 
surveyed for the first time on their specific sustainability skills re-
lating  to  the  key  sustainability  topics.  The  skills  matrix  for  the 
Board of Management provides an overview of its sustainability-
related  expertise.  This  covers all  sustainability  topics  for  which 
material  impacts,  risks  and  opportunities  were  identified  in  the 
↗ Materiality Assessment. Responsibility for completing the question-
naires lies with each individual member of the Board of Manage-
ment. The Legal, Patents and Group Compliance Management 
department of BMW AG verifies the plausibility of the information 
provided by the members of the Board of Management. 

If it transpires that the Board of Management does not have its 
own detailed expertise in certain areas, it can draw directly on the 
expertise and experience of the relevant departments that have 
knowledge of the material sustainability matters. The Board of 
Management is also permitted to use external resources such as 
training courses and experts at any time. Reviews are performed 
on a regular basis to ensure the availability of relevant expertise 
and  necessary  skills.  If  necessary,  structural  adjustments  are 
made and relevant expertise is added or deepened. 

The  skills  matrix  also  indicates  the  experience  of  the  Board  of 
Management that is of relevance given the BMW Group’s sec-
tors, products and geographical locations. 

Supervisory Board - Composition, diversity, expertise 
BMW
AG’s  Supervisory  Board  is  composed  of  ten  shareholder 
representatives (elected by the Annual General Meeting) and ten 
employee representatives (elected in accordance with the Ger-
man  Co-Determination  Act).  In  the event  of  an early  departure 
from the Board – for example, if a member resigns – the respon-
sible court will appoint a new member of the Supervisory Board 
for the remainder of the term of office on request. The Supervi-
sory  Board  members  representing  employees  comprise  seven 
Company employees, including one senior executive staff repre-
sentative,  and  three  members  elected  following  nomination  by 
trade unions. 

The DCGK recommends that more than half of the shareholder 
representatives should be independent, i.e. independent of the 
Company and its Board of Management, as well as of a control-
ling shareholder. To be independent, a member of the Supervi-
sory  Board  cannot  have  any  personal  or  business  relationship 
with the Company or its Board of Management that could give 
rise to a material and lasting conflict of interest. Eight of the ten 
shareholder representatives (80%) on the Supervisory Board of 
BMW AG are classified as independent.  

The Supervisory Board must be composed in such a way that its 
members collectively possess the knowledge, skills and experi-
ence  required  to  perform  its  tasks  in  a  proper  manner.  To  this 
end,  BMW  AG’s  Supervisory  Board  passes  annual  resolutions 
specifying objectives regarding its composition, including a com-
petency profile and a diversity policy.  

—  The Supervisory Board is required to include at least six in-
dependent shareholder representatives within the meaning 
of the recommendations of the GCGC. 

—  The chairs of the Supervisory Board, the Audit Committee 
and the Personnel Committee – which is involved in prepar-
ing  decisions  on  Board  of  Management  remuneration  – 
should  be  independent  of  BMW  AG  and  of  the  Board  of 
Management.  The  chairperson  of  the  Supervisory  Board 
may not serve as the chair of the Audit Committee. 

—  When seeking suitably qualified individuals for the Supervi-
sory Board whose specialist skills and leadership  qualities 
are most likely to be an asset to the Board as a whole, con-
sideration also needs to be given to diversity. When prepar-
ing nominations, the extent to which the work of the Super-
visory Board will benefit from diverse professional and per-
sonal backgrounds (including international experience) and 
appropriate gender representation should be considered on 
a case-by-case basis. It is the joint responsibility of all those 
participating in the nomination and election process to en-
sure  that  qualified  women  are  considered  for  Supervisory 
Board membership.  

— 

If possible, the Supervisory Board should have at least four 
members that have international experience or specialised 
knowledge of one or more non-German markets important 
to the BMW Group. 

—  Furthermore, if possible, the Supervisory Board should in-
clude  seven  members  who  have  in-depth  knowledge  and 
experience  within  the  BMW  Group,  no  more  than  two  of 
whom  may  be  former  members  of  the  Board  of  Manage-
ment. 

—  Three members of the Supervisory Board should preferably 
have previous experience in the management or supervision 
of another medium-sized or large company. 

—  The Supervisory Board should ideally have expertise in the 
areas relevant to the Company, namely corporate strategy, 
technology,  purchasing/supply  chains,  production/manu-
facturing, sales/customer needs, finance/accounting/audit-
ing,  capital  markets, 
re-
sources/personnel management, compliance, IT/digitalisa-
tion/artificial  intelligence,  change  management/business 
transformation.  Each  member  of  the  Supervisory  Board 
should have expertise in at least one of these areas. 

individual  mobility,  human 

—  Three members of the Supervisory Board should preferably 
have expertise in the sustainability issues that are of key im-
portance to the Company. 

The gender ratio on the Supervisory Board is in line with statu-
tory  requirements.  Since  the  Act  on  Equal  Participation  of 
Women and Men in Management Positions in the Private and the 
Public Sector (“Act on Equal Gender Participation”) came into ef-
fect in 2016, a minimum of 30% of the members of the Super-
visory Board of BMW AG have been female and a maximum of 
70% have been male. Female members made up 30% of the 
Supervisory Board at the end of 2024. 

BMW AG surveys the members of the Supervisory Board on an 
annual basis regarding their individual skills and expertise. BMW 
AG  began  surveying the  members  of  the  Supervisory  Board  in 
2022 to determine their experience in the areas of relevance to 
the BMW Group on the basis of the DCGK. The results of the sur-
vey are published in the form  of a matrix. This survey includes 
questions about expertise in the areas of environmental and so-
cial sustainability.

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
111 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

December  2024  marked  the  first  time  that  Supervisory  Board 
members were asked about their specific sustainability expertise 
in the sustainability matters of relevance to the Company within 
the meaning of the ESRS. The results of the survey and the ex-
perience of Supervisory Board  members in relation to the sec-
tors,  products  and  geographical  locations  that  are  material  for 
the BMW Group are shown in the matrix below. The sustainabil-
ity-related expertise of the Supervisory Board, including access 
to such expertise, covers all of the sustainability topics for which 
material  impacts,  risks  and  opportunities  were  identified  in  the 
↗ Materiality Assessment. 

Responsibility  for  completing  the  questionnaires  in  accordance 
with the GCGC and ESRS lies with each individual member of the 
Supervisory  Board.  The  Legal  Affairs,  Patents,  Group  Compli-
ance Management department of BMW AG verifies the plausibil-
ity of the information provided by respondents. 

The experience and expertise of the Supervisory Board members 
regarding key aspects of corporate policy and their expertise re-
lated to the sustainability matters of relevance to the Company 
are primarily derived from their professional training or academic 
education, their main professional roles, and management or su-
pervisory mandates at other companies. They are also able  to 
access expertise of this nature through training sessions, expert 
consultations, and specialized articles. 

BMW AG provides training events for the members of the Super-
visory  Board  on  a  regular  basis.  This  training  regularly  covers 
sustainability  matters.  In  2023,  training  topics  included  an  in-
depth exploration of electromobility and hydrogen technology, an 
update on non-financial reporting and the EU Taxonomy, and a 
detailed discussion of processes for implementing carbon reduc-
tion targets in the supply chain. In 2024, the circular economy 
was  a  focus  topic.  During  a  tour  of  the  Tiexi  plant  on  a  trip  to 
China  in  June  2024,  Supervisory  Board  members  received  an 

Skills matrix Supervisory Board 

Experience 

(Access to) expertise 

In relevant markets 

In relevant areas of competence 

Sustainability 

Europe 

US 

China 

Other 

Individual mobility 

Corporate strategy 

Technologies 

Production 

Sales 

Finance 

Climate change 

Pollution 

Water and marine resources 

Biodiversity and ecosystems 

Circular economy and resource use 

Own workforce 

Personnel management 

Workers in the value chain 

Digitalisation 

Supply chain 

Consumers and end-users 

Business conduct 

overview of the production footprint. The circular economy was 
also  highlighted  in  a  presentation  by  an  external  speaker  at 
Tsinghua University in Beijing. A guided tour of the BMW Group’s 
Cell Manufacturing Competence Centre in Parsdorf near Munich 
gave the members a deeper insight into battery production and 
technology. Following the election of a new Supervisory Board 
member,  the  BMW  Legal  Affairs,  Patents,  Group  Compliance 
Management department informs the new member of the prin-
cipal legal issues affecting their duties as well as corporate gov-
ernance  aspects.  Moreover,  the  organisation  submits  various 
onboarding plans to introduce new members to topics that are 
important for the work of the Supervisory Board. The introduction 
to the corporate strategy provided to members of the Supervi-
sory Board covers the strategic approach to material sustainabil-
ity topics. 

Supervisory board – Duties and committees 
The  Supervisory  Board  monitors  the  activities  of  the  Board  of 
Management  and  advises  the  Board  of  Management  on  im-
portant  matters  relating  to  the  management  and  the  strategic 
development of the Group. Sustainability issues and their asso-
ciated  material  impacts,  risks  and  opportunities  are  of  key  im-
portance to the Supervisory Board. 

—  At each of its meetings, the Board of Management pre-
sents the  material  impacts,  risks  and  opportunities  re-
lated  to the  latest  business  developments  in  its  report 
on the current business situation.  

—  The  Supervisory  Board  monitors  significant  selected 
material impacts, risks and opportunities of the Board of 
Management’s plans as part of its handling of the cor-
porate  strategy,  long-term  corporate  planning,  taking 
into account sustainability matters, in particular environ-
mental  and  social  aspects  and  objectives,  and  the 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
112 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

planning  of  business  development  for  the  following  fi-
nancial year. The Supervisory Board addresses all stra-
tegically  significant  plans,  transactions  and  measures 
for the Group, especially if these fundamentally change 
the Group’s prospects for success or risk position. The 
results of the materiality assessment are presented to 
the Supervisory Board by the Member of the Board of 
Management 
for  Finance  ↗ Materiality 
Assessment. The approval of the Supervisory Board is re-
quired for material changes to the corporate and prod-
uct strategy as well as important transactions that are of 
fundamental strategic importance. Long-term corporate 
planning  and  business  development  planning  for  the 
upcoming  financial  year  are  submitted  to  the  Supervi-
sory Board on an annual basis for approval.  

responsible 

— 

In the annual risk report, the Board of Management pro-
vides the Supervisory Board with a detailed overview of 
the  current  risk  situation,  as  well  as  the  risk  manage-
ment system and risk strategy. This includes sustaina-
bility matters. 

In accordance with its rules of procedure, the Supervisory Board 
of  BMW AG  has  a  number  of  committees  with  different  duties 
(see  in  particular  the  ↗ Rules  of  Procedure  of  the  Supervisory  Board  of 
BMW AG). Sustainability topics play an integral part in this struc-
ture. 

In the 2024 financial year, the Supervisory Board had a Presid-
ing Board and four committees, namely the Personnel Commit-
tee,  the  Audit  Committee,  the  Nomination  Committee  and  the 
Mediation Committee.  

The  Supervisory  Board  passed  a  resolution  to  restructure  its 
committees and implemented the resolution on 1 January 2025. 
Instead of the Personnel Committee a Remuneration Committee 
was created, which focuses exclusively on the remuneration of 
the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. The Pre-
siding Board was transferred to a Presiding Committee, which,  
to  preparing  Supervisory  Board  meetings,  
in  addition 
addresses  non-remuneration-related  personnel  matters.  The 

Remuneration  Committee  has  seven  members,  strengthening 
both its independence and its diversity. 

As the report on the activities of the Supervisory Board and its 
committees primarily focuses on the 2024 financial year, the fol-
lowing  disclosures  are  based  on  the  committee  structure  that 
was in place in 2024. 

The committees are involved as follows in the monitoring of ma-
terial impacts, risks and opportunities: 

—  The Presiding Board prepares the Supervisory Board meet-
ings, assuming the subject matter to be discussed does not 
fall within the remit of any of the Committees. This includes 
preparatory  work  on  the  following  topics  and  their  associ-
ated impacts, risks and opportunities, including sustainabil-
ity  matters:  corporate  strategy,  long-term  corporate  plan-
ning and business development planning for the following 
financial  year;  changes  related  to  corporate  governance; 
and  the  declaration  of  compliance  with  the  recommenda-
tions of the DCGK in accordance with § 161 of the German 
Stock Corporation Act . 

—  The  Audit  Committee  reviews  the  financial  reporting  and 
oversees the financial reporting process, including reporting 
on  sustainability  matters.  It  prepares  the  Supervisory 
Board’s  resolution  relating  to  the  Company  and  Group  Fi-
nancial Statements, and discusses the combined manage-
ment report and the Sustainability Statement with the Board 
of  Management.  The  Committee  also  reviews  interim  re-
ports with the Board of Management before their publica-
tion. Moreover, the Audit Committee is responsible for over-
seeing the external audit. In connection with the Company’s 
and the Group’s sustainability reporting, the Audit Commit-
tee  prepares  the  internal  audit  for  the  Supervisory  Board, 
decides on an external audit and commissions an external 
auditor. The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring 
the effectiveness of the internal control system, including the 
internal audit system and the internal Compliance Manage-
ment System, as well as the internal risk management sys-
tem, and is therefore deeply involved in monitoring material 
impacts,  risks  and  opportunities.  The  Committee  receives 

detailed reports every six months on risk management and 
risk  strategy,  the  current  risk  situation,  and  the  extent  to 
which the risk cover funds have been utilised. ESG risks are 
included in these reports. The Chief Compliance Officer re-
ports  to  the  Audit  Committee  on  compliance  matters  and 
changes  to  the  Compliance  Management  System  twice  a 
year while taking the Board of Management’s due diligence 
responsibilities into consideration. He also reports to the Su-
pervisory Board once a year.  

—  The Personnel Committee prepares decisions with regard to 
the  appointment  and,  where  applicable,  revocation  of  the 
appointment of members of the Board of Management. Its 
preparatory  activities  also  extend  to  remuneration  of  the 
Board of Management and regular review of the remunera-
tion system for the Board of Management in light of sustain-
ability targets. The Personnel Committee also monitors the 
extent  to  which  the  targets  established  in  this  area  have 
been achieved. 

—  The Nomination Committee prepares election proposals for 
shareholder  representatives  on  the  Supervisory  Board  for 
the Annual General Meeting while taking the objectives re-
garding 
in  
↗ Supervisory Board - Composition, diversity, expertise. 

into  account,  as  outlined 

its  composition 

Over the course of the 2024 financial year, the Presiding Board 
and  the  Supervisory  Board  addressed  sustainability  matters, 
with a particular focus on the progress being made in electromo-
bility and the prospects for hydrogen technology and the circular 
economy. A report to the Presiding Board and Supervisory Board 
at the end of the year addressed key strategic personnel topics 
and the status of diversity in the Company. The Audit Committee 
explored the responsible use of water, along with the associated 
material impacts, risks and opportunities. 

Every September, the Supervisory Board receives a report from 
the  Chairman  of  the  Board  of  Management  and  the  Board  of 
Management member responsible for Finance on the extent to 
which key ESG targets have been achieved. These include tar-
gets for reducing carbon emissions, the proportion of all-electric 
vehicles  to  total  deliveries,  the  fulfilment  of  sustainability 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
113 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

requirements by suppliers, the proportion of women in manage-
ment positions, and the amount of spending on employee train-
ing and development. The Audit Committee accords special at-
tention to the audit of the non-financial statement. The achieve-
ment of material ESG targets is also discussed as part of the re-
porting  on  the  annual  and  Group  Financial  Statements.  These 
are also part of the remuneration system for the Board of Man-
agement. The Board of Management’s remuneration targets for 
each year are set in December of the previous year. A meeting is 
held  in  March  to  review  the extent to  which  the  targets  for  the 
past financial year have been achieved and to pass a resolution 
on the Board of Management’s remuneration. 

Information about the Company’s Governing Constitution is pro-
vided in the ↗ Corporate Governance Statement. This is prepared by the 
Presiding Board and is adopted by resolution of the Supervisory 
Board. 

R E M U N E R A T I O N   O F   T H E   B O A R D   O F  
M A N A G E M E N T   A N D   S U P E R V I S O R Y  
B O A R D  

Board of Management 
The total remuneration provided to the members of the Board of 
Management  consists  of  fixed  and  variable  components.  The 
fixed,  non-performance-related  remuneration  comprises  the 
base  salary,  fringe  benefits  and  contributions  to  the  company 
pension scheme. The variable remuneration consists of the bo-
nus and the long-term share-based remuneration. Variable re-
muneration accounts for 58-66% of the total target remunera-
tion. At 100% target achievement, the bonus accounts for 27-
30% of the total target remuneration, while the share-based re-
muneration accounts for 31-36%. 

Overview of total target remuneration for members of the 
Board of Management1 

Fringe benefits²
1-4%

Contributions 
Retirement 
benefits
7-12%

Base salary
25-30%

Variable 
Remuneration
58-66%

Share-based 
Remuneration
31-36%

Bonus
27-30%

1 The remuneration structure as defined in the remuneration system for total target remuneration is 

depicted. 

2 Excluding a possible payment to new members of the Board of Management to compensate for 

salary losses from a previous employment relationship and/or to cover relocation costs. 

The  bonus  consists  of  an  earnings  component  and  a  perfor-
mance component. If 100% of the target is achieved for both the 
performance and the earnings component, the share of the bo-
nus attached to each component is 50% of the individual target 
amount of the bonus. The earnings component of the bonus re-
wards  the  performance  of  the  business  in  the  vesting  year,  as 

measured by financial indicators. The performance component 
of  the  bonus  rewards  the  achievement  of  certain  non-financial 
performance  criteria  defined  by  the  Supervisory  Board.  These 
criteria are divided into individual targets for the individual mem-
bers  of  the  Board  of  Management  (departmental  targets)  and 
collective targets for the entire Board of Management (interde-
partmental  targets).  Departmental  targets  account  for  10%  of 
the target amount for the performance component, with interde-
partmental targets accounting for the remaining 90%. The inter-
departmental targets include sustainability-related performance 
criteria and other non-financial criteria. With regard to the inter-
departmental targets, 50% of the weighting is for sustainability-
related  targets,  and  40%  is  for  other  non-financial  targets,  in 
each  case  in  relation  to  the  target  amount  of  the  performance 
component of the bonus. As part of the share-based remunera-
tion  as  a  variable  long-term  component  of  remuneration,  the 
members of the Board of Management receive a cash payment 
earmarked  for  investment  (the  “personal  cash  investment 
amount”). The amount depends on the target achievement level 
for a financial indicator (return on capital employed (RoCE) in the 
Automotive  Segment)  and  for  defined  non-financial  indicators 
(“strategic focus targets”) in the vesting year. If 100% of the tar-
get is achieved, the RoCE component and the strategic focus tar-
gets component each account for 50% of the individual target 
amount. 

The remuneration system also provides for sustainability-related 
matters to be assessed for the purposes of the variable remuner-
ation component. As part of the performance component of the 
bonus, at least 50% of the target amount is dependent on sus-
tainability-related targets that have been defined as interdepart-
mental targets. These may include targets relating to resource-
efficient  and  climate-friendly  products,  gender  diversity,  em-
ployee  satisfaction  and  reputation.  The  Supervisory  Board  de-
cides which indicators are used to assess performance against 
each criterion before the start of the financial year. Sustainability-
related indicators may be related to measures such as the reduc-
tion  of  CO2e  emissions  or  further  training.  Performance  criteria 
for the reporting year are environmental innovation performance 
(indicators: proportion of all deliveries accounted for by electrified 
vehicles  and  proportion  of  all  deliveries  accounted  for  by  all-

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
114 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

I N T E R N A L   C O N T R O L   S Y S T E M   F O R  
S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y   R E P O R T I N G  

The BMW Group’s Internal Control System (ICS) covers, among 
other things, risks and controls relating to sustainability report-
ing. A general description of the ICS, including the aspects of the 
system related to sustainability reporting, is provided in » Internal 
Control System. 

emissions. Target achievement levels were determined after the 
end of the financial year. The climate-related targets for the per-
formance component of the bonus were the performance crite-
rion “environmental innovation performance” based on the indi-
cator of the proportion of electrified and all-electric vehicles sold. 
The targets for the long-term variable remuneration were tied to 
the reduction of carbon fleet emissions in the EU and global sales 
of all-electric vehicles (BEV). 

Climate-related remuneration accounted for around 17-18% of 
the total remuneration granted and owed for the 2024 financial 
year. 

Supervisory Board 
The  regulation  governing  remuneration  for  the  Supervisory 
Board  is  set  out  in  § 16  of  the  Articles  of  Incorporation  of 
BMW AG, and specifies both the remuneration system to be used 
and the precise framework for calculating the remuneration due 
to the members of the Supervisory Board. 

To ensure that the Supervisory Board monitors and advises the 
Board of Management as an independent body, the remunera-
tion of the Supervisory Board is structured as fixed remuneration 
plus  an  attendance  fee  and  is  not  dependent  on  sustainability 
matters. 

The remuneration of the Supervisory Board is determined by the 
Annual General Meeting. The regulation currently in effect was 
confirmed by the Annual General Meeting on 12 May 2021 with 
a majority of 99.40% of the valid votes cast. 

electric vehicles), reputation (indicator: Corporate Reputation In-
dex), adaptability (indicators: Sustainability index and spending 
on employee training and development) and attractiveness as an 
employer (indicator: placement in rankings). Also taken into ac-
count  are  leadership  performance  (indicator:  assessment  of 
management performance) and the achievement of diversity tar-
gets (indicator: diversity targets), as well as preventive activities 
in  ensuring  compliance  (indicator:  actions  taken  to  strengthen 
compliance). In terms of the share-based remuneration, the Su-
pervisory Board adopts strategic focus targets each year. Some 
or all of these may be related to sustainability matters. Strategic 
focus targets for the reporting year were the reduction of carbon 
fleet emissions (EU) and sales of all-electric vehicles (BEV). 

The remuneration system stipulates that at least 50% of the per-
formance component of the bonus is dependent on sustainabil-
ity-related matters. In relation to the total variable target remu-
neration, the proportion is around 12%. Depending on the spe-
cific annual targets for the individual departmental targets of the 
performance component of the bonus and for the strategic focus 
targets of the long-term variable remuneration component, the 
proportion of the variable target remuneration that is dependent 
on sustainability-related aspects can be as high as around 41% 
of the variable target remuneration. 

The Supervisory Board is responsible for defining and reviewing 
the remuneration system of the Board of Management and for 
determining the individual remuneration of the members of the 
Board  of  Management.  It  submits  the  remuneration  system  to 
the Annual General Meeting for approval in the event of signifi-
cant changes, but at least every four years. 

The  Supervisory  Board  adopted  the  current  remuneration  sys-
tem for the members of the Board of Management for financial 
years starting on or after 1 January 2021 and submitted it to the 
Annual General Meeting for approval. The Annual General Meet-
ing approved it on 12 May 2021 with a majority of 91.60% of 
the valid votes cast. 

The Supervisory Board set climate-related targets for the varia-
ble  remuneration  of  the  Board of  Management  in the  2024  fi-
nancial  year.  These  were  related  to  the  reduction  of  GHG 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
115 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

S T A T E M E N T   O N   D U E   D I L I G E N C E  

Core elements of Due Diligence 

  Paragraphs in the sustainability statement 

a) Embedding due diligence in governance, strategy 

  ↗ Description of material impacts, risks and opportunities and their link to strategy and business model 

and business model  

↗ Principles of Governance by the Board of Management and Supervisory Board 

↗ Renumeration of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board 

b) Engaging with affected stakeholders in all key steps 

  ↗ Procedure and methodological basis for the materiality assessment 

of the due diligence 

↗ Stakeholder Engagement 

↗ Principles of Governance by the Board of Management and Supervisory Board 

c) Identifying and assessing adverse impacts 

  ↗ Procedure and methodological basis for the materiality assessment 

↗ Climate-related impacts 

↗ Impact, risks and opportunities in relation to environmental pollution 

↗ Water-related impacts, risks and opportunities 

↗ Description of material impacts, risks and opportunities and their link to strategy and business model 

d) Taking actions to address those adverse impacts 

  ↗ Transition plan to achieve Net-Zero emissions by 2050 

↗ Climate change mitigation and adaptation as a key part of the corporate strategy 

↗ Measures for the responsible use of resources 

↗ Due Diligence in the supplier network 

↗ Responsible raw material management 

↗ Measures to protect biodiversity 

↗ Health management on a holistic basis 

↗ Customer data protection 

e) Tracking the effectiveness of these efforts and 

  ↗ Path to achieving the CO2e reduction targets in 2030 

communicating 

↗ Implemented actions and metrics for a holistic CO2e reduction 

↗ Preparing for Net Zero 

↗ Greenhouse gas emissions along the entire value chain 

↗ Use of an internal carbon price to assess vehicle projects 

↗ Reduction of Environmental Pollution 

↗ Due Diligence in the supplier network 

↗ Health management on a holistic basis 

↗ Prevention and care 

↗ Qualification 

↗ Dealing with the opportunities and risks associated with digitalisation 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
116 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 

117  Climate Change Mitigation and Adaption 

133  Responsible Use of Water Resources 

118  Climate resilience of the business model 

134  Water management and water protection 

118  Climate change mitigation and adaptation as a key part of the corporate 

135  Water consumption in production reduced again 

strategy 

119  Transition plan to achieve Net Zero emissions by 2050 

121  Path to achieving the CO2e reduction targets in 2030 

122 

Implemented actions and metrics for a holistic CO2e reduction 

127  Holistic Environmental Management within the BMW Group 

128  Energy Efficiency and renewable Energy 

129  Energy management 

129  Energy targets 

130  Efficiency measures and energy mix 

131  Reduction of Environmental Pollution 

135  Measures to reduce water usage 

137  Commitment to protecting Biodiversity 

138  Great importance of intact ecosystems 

138  Holistic approach to sustainability goals 

138  Measures to protect biodiversity 

139  Resilience analysis 

140  Circular Economy and Resource Use 

142  Holistic approach for the transition to a circular economy 

142  Milestones along the road to the circular economy 

143  Measures for the responsible use of resources 

146  Effective waste management 

147  EU Taxonomy 

CO 2e EMISSIONS SCOPE 1 AND 2 

CO 2e EMISSIONS SCOPE 3  

CO 2 EMISSIONS 
EU NEW CAR FLEET  

   0.8 million t 

   130.3 million t 

   99.5 g/km 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
117 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

C L I M A T E   C H A N G E   M I T I G A T I O N   A N D   A D A P T A T I O N  

Material impacts, risks and opportunities 

  Type 

Stage of the 
value chain    Policies 

  Targets 

  Specific actions 

By emitting greenhouse gas emissions worldwide through upstream processes, sourcing and procuring raw 
material, products and services for the production, development and offering of its own products and services 
(Scope 3, Upstream), the BMW Group contributes to climate change. 

  Negative  
Impact 

By emitting greenhouse gas emissions worldwide through downstream processes, mainly through use of 
sold products (Scope 3 downstream), BMW Group contributes to climate change. 

  Negative  
Impact 

The BMW Group emits greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) worldwide through processes in own operations 
(Scope 1 and 2) and thus contribute to climate change.  

  Negative  
Impact 

Worldwide adaptation efforts by the BMW Group may require (disruptive) adjustments to the supply chain 
with negative effects on suppliers or local communities.  

  Negative  
Impact 

New or changing worldwide government regulation including carbon tax could require to adjust operations in 
the supply chain (increasing costs). 

  Risk 

Reputational risks can arise if the BMW Group fails to adhere to stakeholders expectations regarding the re-
duction of CO2e emissions in the supply chain. 

  Risk 

Ambitiously reducing CO2e emissions (Scope 3 downstream, e.g. by high efficient combustion engines and 
production of BEVs/PHEVs) can increase the market share in the customer segment of environmentally con-
scious buyers. 

  Opportunity   

Catena-X provides standardized calculation methods and exchange formats for scope 3 upstream GHG emis-
sions. This allows the BMW Group to report comparable emissions along the actual supply chain in order to 
better identify reduction potentials and to define targeted reduction measures with suppliers. 

  Opportunity   

By offering battery electric, hydrogen and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles, the BMW Group enables the society 
to more environmentally friendly alternatives to traditional combustion engines (use of electricity from re-
newable sources implied). 

  Positive  
Impact 

Risk through increased competition in the field of electrified vehicles.  

  Risk  

The currently very ambitious fleet legislation, which may become more stringent in some markets, can only 
be met with high additional marketing costs given weaker EV demand. 

  Risk 

  −  BMW Group Climate Strategy 

  −  Reduce Scope 1, Scope 2 and 

Scope 3 emissions by at least 40 
million tonnes CO2e in 2030 com-
pared to 2019 levels 

  −  Production and BMW locations: en-
ergy efficiency measures and in-
creased use of renewable energies 

−  Supply chain: use of electricity from 
renewable sources* and secondary 
materials 

−  Logistics: expanded innovation and 
infrastructure management process 
for logistics actions 

−  Use phase: consistent electrification 
of the vehicle fleet and efficiency im-
provements for conventional 
drivetrains 

−  Continuous increase in the use of 

charging electricity from CO2e-free 
generation 

  −  Drivetrain strategy 

  −  None 

  −  Expansion of the drivetrain portfolio 

−  Increase in the proportion of battery 
electric vehicles (BEVs) and effi-
ciency increases in the wide range of 
drivetrain technologies 

        Upstream material          Own Operations material          Downstream material  

* See ↗ Glossary for a definition of electricity from renewable sources. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
118 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

Climate resilience of the business model 
The BMW Group actively works on improving the resilience of its 
business model with the aim of meeting the challenges posed by 
climate change. Through comprehensive consideration in Strat-
egy and Planning, Development (products and production tech-
nologies),  Purchasing  (raw  materials  and  global  procurement 
markets),  Production  (locations  and  cooperations),  Sales,  Fi-
nance  (profitability  and  liquidity)  and  Personnel  (training),  the 
BMW Group is able to identify and assess the short-, medium- 
and  long-term  adjustments  to  its  business  model  that  are  re-
quired in response to climate change while taking the necessary 
actions in all areas of its operations. To this end, the Company 
regularly  reviews  and  updates  its  underlying  climate  scenarios 
and assumptions in order to make the effects its own business 
model  visible.  The  BMW Group’s  approach  to  assessing  resili-
ence extends to the entire value chain (own locations, supplier 
locations  and  sales  locations) and  is  based  on  internal  risk  re-
porting. Corporate planning (twelve-year planning period) is up-
dated annually and takes the risks and opportunities arising from 
climate  change  into  account.  The  scenario  analyses  are  per-
formed  to  assess  physical  and  transitory  climate  risks.  Further 
details related to the climate risk analysis process are available 
in the ↗ Materiality Assessment. 

The BMW Group takes steps to ensure the long-term viability of 
its business model by implementing operational measures, con-
tinuously  updating  its  sustainability  strategy,  and  following  the 
overarching  corporate  strategy.  Uncertainties  in  underlying  as-
sumptions (primarily regulatory requirements, customer expec-
tations, technological developments, macroeconomic trends) are 
recorded  on  an  ongoing  basis  and  any  adjustments  are  made 
promptly. The results of scenario analyses are incorporated into 
operational measures and the further development of the sus-
tainability strategy as an integral part of the corporate strategy. 
Sustainability targets are integrated into corporate planning on 
the basis of current premises and scenarios (including Interna-
tional  Energy  Agency  scenarios  for  energy  generation,  CO2e 
emissions from upstream value creation). Starting with sales and 

volume  planning,  all  subsequent  processes  are  interlinked  in a 
coordinated  procedure.  Simulating  the  possible  effects  of  this 
planning makes it possible for the BMW Group to take the nec-
essary actions at an early stage. Assumptions about technolo-
gies, customer behaviour and demand trends are taken into ac-
count  as  planning  premises.  In  particular,  there  are  remaining 
uncertainties  in  the  area  of  customer  behavior  and  demand. 
These areas are reviewed on a regular basis in order to reduce 
this level of uncertainty. The same applies to planned actions re-
lated to CO2e reduction, such as further efficiency improvements 
or the progressive electrification of the product portfolio. These 
are  also  included  as  planning  premises.  Global  market  sales 
forecasts and the planned product and drive portfolio are taken 
into account as key factors. This means that the resilience anal-
ysis assesses the entire planning period based on the latest as-
sumptions and forecasts as part of the annual planning process. 
Resulting actions are identified and taken into account in the fi-
nancial  planning  process.  Based  on  these  assumptions,  the 
BMW Group's business model is resilient to the impacts and ad-
justments resulting from climate change and climate change ad-
aptation. 

Climate change mitigation and adaptation as key parts of 
the corporate strategy 
The BMW Group regards its balance of economic, ecological and 
social interests as the basis for its economic success. The Com-
pany has therefore anchored the material impacts, risks and op-
portunities related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 
in its corporate strategy ↗ Cornerstones of the Strategy. The strategic 
fields of action of electrification, digitalisation and sustainability/ 
circular economy are geared towards achieving the sustainability 
targets. As a global Company, the BMW Group is also in contin-
uous  dialogue  with  a  large  number  of  external  stakeholders  in 
Germany and abroad regarding aspects of climate change. This 
includes  affected  communities and  indigenous  peoples.  Stake-
holder feedback is taken into account and contributes to the con-
tinuous  development  of  the  corporate  strategy  ↗ Stakeholder 
Engagement, ↗ Social and Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Network. 

The  BMW Group’s  Strategy,  including  topic-specific  strategies 
such as the sustainability strategy, is confirmed by the Board of 
Management. The CO2e strategy draws on the Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol, science-based targets and implementation pathways, 
as  well  as  all  relevant  regulatory  changes.  Progress  towards 
achieving these targets is reviewed on a regular basis. All neces-
sary actions are discussed in the relevant committees and by the 
Board of Management. These bodies also reach decisions on the 
relevance  and  effectiveness  of  the  actions.  Specific  decisions, 
such as overarching targets for reducing CO2e emissions and cir-
cular economy initiatives, are addressed in topic-specific meet-
ings of the Board of Management. Strategic aspects are imple-
mented in the respective departments such as Purchase, Devel-
opment, Production, HR and Sales on the basis of defined target 
processes. In line with established target-setting processes and 
target  achievement  monitoring  systems,  targets  are  broken 
down  within  the  organisation  to  the  individual  implementation 
levels.  The targets  are  further detailed  as  needed  with  specific 
requirements  (for  example  within  vehicle  projects  and  down  to 
the component level). 

Taking a coordinated approach and integrating all external and 
internal  requirements  enables  the  BMW Group  to  develop,  im-
plement  and  continuously  update  detailed  guidelines  and  in-
structions based on the strategies. This approach integrates cli-
mate  change  mitigation  and  adaptation  as  well  as  energy  use 
and efficiency. This extends from development guidelines (such 
as  Design  for  Circularity)  through  to  process  specifications  for 
procurement  and  CO2e  reduction  requirements  for  the  supplier 
network*. Internal premises are established on the basis of cor-
responding requirements with the aim of implementing the stra-
tegic targets. 

* The BMW Group includes measures that reduce carbon emissions, such as the use of electricity 
from renewable sources, the use of secondary raw materials, new manufacturing processes for 
raw materials, and product and material innovations such as biomaterials. Accordingly, compen-
sation measures are not included. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
119 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

Company-wide requirements related to climate change adapta-
tion are continuously developed and implemented including with 
the help of infrastructure planning guidelines. One example is the 
planning premise that new sites will be operated without the use 
of fossil fuels, which has been approved by the Board of Man-
agement. The implementation process is defined on the basis of 
relevant  frameworks  and  guidelines,  such  as  the  Greenhouse 
Gas Protocol and science-based approaches for reducing CO2e 
emissions. The long-term corporate planning workflow was ex-
panded  in  the  2024  reporting  year  to  include  the  assessment 
and simulation of the impact on the BMW Group's absolute CO2e 
emissions. This was done to make the interactions between vol-
ume,  drivetrain  mix,  and  supply  chain  more  transparent  within 
planning processes, and is achieved by integrating the impact on 
CO2e emissions directly into the scenarios used for volume and 
financial planning. 

In  addition  to  the  CO2e  strategy,  the  BMW Group  analyses  the 
current  and  future  regulatory  requirements  for  emissions  and 
drivetrain  technologies  as  part of  its  long-term  corporate  plan-
ning. This includes detailed strategic market and drivetrain fore-
casts that are performed as part of volume planning. These fore-
casts monitor and anticipate fleet carbon emissions limits, pollu-
tants (including brake/tyre abrasion), quotas for electrified vehi-
cles,  and  bans  on  registration  of  individual  drivetrain  technolo-
gies. As part of the process for updating the BMW Group’s long-
term corporate planning, vehicle volume plans, and the drivetrain 
mix of the BMW Group portfolio are updated on an annual and 
ongoing basis. The aim is to continue reducing emissions during 
the use  phase  of  vehicles  while  also  meeting  changing  market 
requirements.  The  consistent  enhancement  of  the  drivetrain 
portfolio therefore remains one of the BMW Group’s main levers 
for reducing carbon emissions in the use phase. ↗ Cornerstones of 
the Strategy 

Additionally  to  regulatory  requirements,  the  BMW Group  also 
factors regional and market-specific conditions into its strategic 

planning. This includes, in particular, the availability and expan-
sion of the charging infrastructure for electrified vehicles, the pro-
portion of renewable energies in the energy mix and the availa-
bility of alternative low-carbon fuels. The analyses also include 
customer  acceptance  of  different  drivetrain  options  in  different 
markets.  Total-cost-of-ownership  considerations,  such  as  pur-
chase  incentives  for  electrified  vehicles,  vehicle  taxation  or  the 
cost of the energy used to power a vehicle have a significant im-
pact  on  customer  acceptance.  The  findings  are  carefully  as-
sessed and incorporated into the process of designing the opti-
mum drivetrain mix for the respective market. 

The BMW Group fulfils the regulatory requirements for fleet car-
bon  emissions  in  the  main  sales  markets  of  the  EU,  USA  and 
China  while  taking  all  of the  relevant  regulatory  flexibilities  into 
account, such as to the purchase of carbon credits. If regulatory 
carbon  requirements  change,  the  Company  will  determine 
whether the current planning needs to be adjusted as part of the 
annual strategic drivetrain forecast or whether additional action 
needs to be taken. This approach ensures that the regulatory re-
quirements are met. 

Transition plan to achieve Net Zero emissions by 2050 
The BMW Group aims to achieve net zero CO2e emissions across 
the entire value chain by latest 2050. This means that the una-
voidable CO2e emissions remaining after the reduction measures 
will be equivalent to a maximum of 10% of the absolute emis-
sions in the base year 2019. The Scope 3 emissions will account 
for around 99% of the remaining total emissions. The remaining 
1% of the emissions are Scope 1 and 2 emissions. ↗ Preparing for 
Net  Zero.  This  methodology  is  based  on  recognised  definitions 
and specifications, including the ESRS. The transition plan for cli-
mate change mitigation which will be used to achieve net zero 
consists  initially  of  the  CO2e  reduction  targets  for  2030,  which 
also  relate  to  the  base  year  2019.  These  near-term  targets 
(NTT)  for  the  target  year  2030  provide  the  guiding  framework 
used to define the actions needed. These targets are in line with 

the climate targets set out in the Paris Agreement to limit global 
warming.1 From the 2024 reporting year onwards, the CO2e tar-
gets will be converted from relative values to absolute values. By 
deriving guidelines for 2035, the time horizon of the target corri-
dor will be extended. 

Science-based,  cross-sectoral  methods  were  used  for  each 
scope to derive CO2e reduction targets for 2030 in line with the 
approach of the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). Targets 
were assessed based on the source of the emissions according 
to the relevant categories of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Per-
centage-based  annual  CO2e  reduction  targets  relative  to  the 
base year 2019 were used. This is a representative base year 
that  provides  reliable  and  comparable  values  with  regard  to 
framework conditions such as sales volumes, emissions in each 
scope,  and  available  technologies.  By  taking  a  systematic  ap-
proach,  the  BMW  Group  ensures  that  the  climate  targets  for 
2030 have been developed on the basis of solid data and have 
taken all relevant factors into consideration. The CO2e targets are 
integrated into the BMW Group's steering system. 

The Company has derived a 1.5°C-aligned pathway for Scope 1 
and 22 emissions and integrated it in the corporate strategy. The 
BMW Group has defined a combined target for its Scope 3 emis-
sions  (including  Purchased  goods  and  services,  Logistics,  and 
the Use phase) in the Automotive segment due to the close in-
terdependencies between the supply chain and use phase. The 
targets are based on the standards of a science-based Well-Be-
low-Two-Degree  approach 
in  accordance  with  SBTi.  The 
BMW Group uses a holistic approach for this purpose that con-
siders the CO2e emissions of vehicles over their entire life cycle. 

1 According to ESRS E1-1-16.g, the BMW Group is not exempt from the EU Paris-aligned bench-

marks, as this only applies to financial services companies. 

2 The combined Scope 1 and 2 target includes all of the categories reported. At present, sites with-

out operational control are not included in the target. The base year 2019 also includes emis-
sions from contract manufacturing (”insourcing”). In the base year 2019 and the target year 
2030, the biogenic share of emissions is included in the figure for the category Company Vehicles 
(Scope 1), while the biogenic share of the average electricity mix supplied to the BMW Group is 
included in the Electricity/Heating/Cooling Procurement for BMW Group Locations category. 
Emissions under Scope 2 are included in the target using the market-based calculation.

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
120 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

CO2e steering logic 

Corporate 
strategy 

Consistency with the objectives 
of the Paris Agreement 

Monitoring und Reporting– 
Governance 
(Group reporting, 
publications) 

 CO2e 

Steering logic 

Targets for product projects and 
anchoring in the periodic targets 
(t CO2/vehicle) of the Purchasing, 
Development, and Production depart-
ments 

Target guidance and 
 target control 
(avoidance of CO2e emissions) 

Measures  
to meet targets and implementation 
in the technology clusters  
for all scopes 

At  the  time  of  target  derivation  for  Scope  3  target,  the  target 
value for 2030 fully meets the requirements of the SBTi Well Be-
low  Two  Degrees  pathway,  but  is  approximately  30%  higher 
than  these  theoretical  targets  with  reference  to  an  ideal  1.5°C 
pathway according to the requirements and methodology of in-
dependent organisations. As part of the development of corridors 
up to 2035, the demand for an increasing acceleration of decar-
bonization is being increasingly taken into account. 

To achieve the CO2e targets, specific decarbonisation levers are 
identified, assessed, approved and implemented specifically for 
each scope. 

The expected CO2e emissions from the corporate planning are 
compared with the scope-specific targets. Measures are derived 
from this process to ensure that the Company’s CO2e targets are 
achieved by 2030 by means of annual target paths. A structured 
process – in which the planned emissions are continuously com-
pared with the targets and appropriate measures are defined – 
makes a significant contribution to the Company meeting its cli-
mate targets as planned. 

These transitional measures are an integral part of the climate 
strategy,  which  is  an  integral  part  of  the  BMW Group  Strategy. 
The planned product and infrastructure measures will provide a 
short-term  outlook  for  the  avoided  or  reduced  CO2e  emissions 
over a period of six years. The expected Scope 1, 2, and 3 emis-
sions  (Purchased  goods  and  services,  Logistics,  Use  phase  in 
each case for the Automotive segment) are updated annually on 
the  basis  of  volume  and  sales  plans  and  long-term  corporate 
planning. Sustainability matters of relevance to the product port-
folio,  such  as  the  electrification  strategy  and  the  integration  of 
these  matters  into  the  continuous  strategic  process,  are  pre-
sented annually as part of corporate planning, which is approved 
by  the  Board  of  Management and  the  Supervisory  Board.  The 
ongoing  implementation  of  these  processes  ensures  that  the 
corporate strategy and emissions reduction targets are harmo-
nised and can be implemented. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
121 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

The BMW Group's long-term corporate planning is based on the 
Company’s target system. In this way, the targets set out in the 
planning are regularly compared with the BMW Group’s strategic 
targets. Decisions related to the implementation of sustainability 
targets – particularly in connection with sales planning and the 
product portfolio – are confirmed in specific draft proposals or by 
the decision making bodies of the BMW Group. 

The BMW Group is drawing up a CapEx plan for capital expendi-
ture and operating expenditure that expands Taxonomy-aligned 
economic activities or allows Taxonomy-eligible economic activ-
ities to become taxonomy-aligned. This plan is being drawn up 
on  the  basis  of  the  long-term  planning  of  the  BMW  Group. 
↗ EU Taxonomy.  The  level  of  investment  required  to  achieve  the 
CO2e targets is derived from this CapEx plan. Specific measures 
are also financed, such as the development of technologies that 
contribute directly to the implementation of the transition plan.1 

The  progress  of  the  implementation  plan,  based  on  the 
measures for each scope, is reflected in the emissions reductions 
achieved and forms the basis for its further development. 

Path to achieving the CO2e reduction targets in 2030 
The BMW Group is fully committed to the Paris Agreement and 
contributes to decarbonisation efforts by pursuing its own ambi-
tious targets. To achieve this, the BMW Group promotes the re-
duction of CO2e emissions throughout the whole life cycle of its 
products as well as the principles of the circular economy with a 
verifiable  track  record  of  continuous  improvement  –  from  the 
supply chain to production, the use phase and the recycling of its 
products. 

The relative targets introduced in 2021 (expressed as reduction 
per vehicle) for Scope 1 and 2 (BMW Group locations) and Scope 
3 (Purchased goods and services, Logistics, Use phase in each 
case for the Automotive segment) will be replaced with absolute 
values measured in tonnes CO2e from reporting year 2024 on-
wards.  The  BMW Group’s  overall  target  claim  remains  un-
changed with this adaptation and take account of growth fore-
casts  and  interaction  between  the  scopes.  No  future  develop-
in  sales  volumes  or  new 
ments,  (for  example  changes 

technologies)  were  assumed  as  premises  as  part  of  the  target 
setting process. 

The BMW Group aims to reduce its CO2e emissions by at least 
40  million  tonnes  CO2e  compared  to  the  2019  base  year  by 
2030 - from 150.1 million tonnes CO2e to 108.6 million tonnes 
CO2e. The targets are based on scientific, cross-sector methods 
aligned with the approach of the SBTi. The BMW Group is com-
mitted to proceeding exclusively according to scientifically recog-
nised methods. For this reason, the BMW Group joined the SBTi 
and validated its relative decarbonisation targets in 2020. Ongo-
ing revisions to the SBTi guidelines, which are expected to con-
tinue  until  at  least  the  end  of  2025,  and  interim  requirements 
valid  until  then  (including  the  mandated  commitment  to  phase 
out combustion engine technology by 2035) mean that it is cur-
rently preventing the validation of the absolute targets. 

The BMW Group actively incorporated stakeholder expectations 
into the methodology used for its reduction pathways when de-
fining  targets  for  a  1.5°C-aligned  CO₂e  reduction  pathway  for 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions, as well as the Well-Below-Two-De-
grees  approach  for  Scope  3  emissions  in  the  Automotive  seg-
ment (covering Purchased goods and services, Logistics, and the 
Use phase). Additionally, the fleet CO2 regulations in the respec-
tive markets are applicable during the use phase. 

Scope 3 categories are considered for both current reporting and 
target-setting purposes based on the requirements of the Green-
house Gas Protocol. In addition to the absolute volume of emis-
sions and the proportion of total emissions, the most important 
criterion being the extent to which the BMW Group is able to in-
fluence the emissions directly. 

Based  on  this  approach,  the  categories  Purchased  goods  and 
services,  Upstream  transportation  and  distribution  (Logistics), 
and Use of sold products (Use Phase) are both reported and fac-
tored into the target-setting process for the Automotive segment. 
These target-relevant categories account for more than 95% of 
all  reported  Scope  3  emissions.  Additional  reported  categories 
(Business  travelling  and  Employee  commuting)  are  excluded 
from  the  target  Scope  because  the  volumes  in  question  are 

relatively  small  (Business  travelling  and  employee  commuting) 
or  because  of  the  lack  of  direct  influence  by  the  BMW  Group 
(End-of-Life treatment of sold products [Disposal]). 

An absolute target of 0.635 million tonnes of CO2e by 2030 has 
been set for direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) emissions.2 
This is equivalent to a 46.3% reduction in emissions compared 
to the base year 2019 (1.182 million tonnes of CO2e). The Scope 
2 target derivation is based on the market-based method. This 
factors in the actual emissions of the electricity used instead of 
the  values  of  regional  electricity  mixes.  Approximately  three 
quarters of the emissions are allocated to Scope 1 and approxi-
mately one quarter to Scope 2. 

An absolute target of 108 million tonnes of CO2e for 2030 was 
defined for Scope 3 emissions in the Automotive segment, based 
on Purchased goods and services, Logistics and the Use phase. 
This is equivalent to a 27.5% reduction in emissions compared 
to the base year 2019 (148.9 million tonnes of CO2e). 

Energy efficiency measures and the use of renewable energy in 
particular should contribute to achieving the targets in the own 
production of the BMW Group. Fossil fuels are increasingly being 
replaced by alternative technologies, particularly site-specific ge-
othermal energy, renewable district heating and power-to-heat 
systems.  At  the  new  plant  in  Debrecen,  Hungary,  all  paint  line 
processes are powered by electricity instead of natural gas. 

1 In accordance with ESRS 1-106, significant monetary amounts related to CapEx and OpEx nec-
essary for the implementation of current or planned measures outside the CapEx plan are not 
quantified for confidentiality reasons. 

2 The combined Scope 1 and 2 target includes all of the categories reported. At present, sites with-

out operational control are not included in the target. The base year 2019 also includes emis-
sions from contract manufacturing (”insourcing”). In the base year 2019 and the target year 
2030, the biogenic share of emissions is included in the figure for the category Company Vehicles 
(Scope 1), while the biogenic share of the average electricity mix supplied to the BMW Group is 
included in the Electricity/Heating/Cooling Procurement for BMW Group Locations category. 
Emissions under Scope 2 are included in the target using the market-based calculation. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
122 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

This  significantly  reduces  CO2e  emissions,  even  if  it  increases 
electricity consumption. The plant in Debrecen sources all of its 
production-related electricity needs from electricity from renew-
able  sources.  These  decarbonisation  levers  are  helping  the 
BMW Group to achieve its overall targets in a manner which is 
proportionate to the total volume of emissions allocated to each 
scope. 

lever  for  CO2e-reducing 
In  the  supply  chain,  the  biggest 
measures is the use of electricity from renewable sources, while 
the second biggest lever is the use of secondary materials and 
raw materials from CO2e-reduced production processes (for ex-
ample  steel  and  aluminium).  Expanded  innovation  and  infra-
structure management process for logistics measures are reduc-
ing emissions related to logistics. During the use phase, the big-
gest lever is the electrification of the product portfolio across all 
brands.  In  addition,  other  drive  technologies  such  as  hydrogen 
are being further developed and will be gradually integrated into 
the  product  range.  The  BMW  Group  is  also  implementing  effi-
ciency  improvements  for  conventional  drivetrains  and  continu-
ously increasing the use of electricity from CO2e-free sources for 
vehicle charging. 

The BMW Group expects the largest contribution to achieving the 
2030 CO2e emissions reduction target – approximately 65% in 
absolute terms – to come from the electrification of the vehicle 
fleet (automobiles), which is allocated to the Scope 3 category 
Use  phase.  The  majority  of  the  remaining  reductions  will  be 
achieved by implementing measures in the supply chain and lo-
gistics.  

The LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) comparison of current all-elec-
tric vehicles shows improvements that have already been real-
ised.  The  next  generation  of  battery  technology  in  the  NEUE 
KLASSE vehicles is expected to reduce emissions in the supply 
chain for the battery cell approximately by another third. By using 
electricity  from  renewable  sources  in  selected  process  steps, 
CO2e emissions can be reduced further over the entire life cycle. 
Compared to comparable vehicle concepts with an internal com-
bustion engine, Scope 3 CO2e emissions can be reduced by up 
to three quarters. 

Regardless of the drivetrain technology, the decarbonisation of 
the supply chain in particular makes significant contributions to 
achieving  the  target.  The  continuously  growing  proportion  of 
electric vehicles in the BMW Group’s range may cause emissions 
in the supply chain to increase in the short to medium term. The 
main reason for this is the higher product carbon footprint (PCF) 
of the high-voltage battery compared to conventional drivetrain 
concepts. In the supply chain and in the component manufactur-
ing process, the BMW Group therefore relies on electricity from 
renewable sources at selected stages of the process, in addition 
to  using  recycled  materials  and  technical  measures  that  have 
been developed to limit the increase in CO2e in the supply chain. 
High  reduction  contributions  result  from  agreements  with  raw 
material suppliers for aluminium and precious metals as well as 
from suppliers of high-voltage battery cells. These measures are 
already being implemented with the current battery generation. 
With the use of upcoming battery generations, these effects are 
to  be  further  expanded.  For  example,  by  using  materials  with 
CO2e-reduced manufacturing processes or higher proportions of 
recyclates, CO2e emissions can be reduced by up to 80% for al-
uminium and up to 70% for steel. This includes the use of direct 
reduction  processes  in  steel  production.  For  other  material 
groups such as glass and plastics, the use of electricity from re-
newable sources has a particularly beneficial effect on the CO2e 
footprint of the supply chain. 

The BMW Group takes into account the trends in key customer 
segments, drivetrain technologies, and forecasts for the decar-
bonisation of supply chains and energy generation when opera-
tionalising emission targets across all three scopes. CO2e credits 
(certificates) are not factored in when these targets are set and 
monitored - Only actual reduction measures are counted. 

The  target  achievement  is  subject  to  uncertainties,  some  of 
which cannot partially or cannot be completely influenced by the 
BMW Group. For example, future deliveries of battery electric ve-
hicles (BEV) as a proportion of total sales may not be in line with 
current  assumptions.  The  availability  of  appropriate  infrastruc-
ture and incentives to purchase BEVs will have an impact on de-
mand. It became clear in the reporting year that the BEV market 
remains fragmented worldwide. Different markets are develop-
ing at different speeds. External factors such as the removal of 

incentives  are  having  a  significant  impact.  The  flexibility  of  the 
BMW Group’s production network puts it in a position to react ef-
fectively to these developments. Higher overall sales volumes or 
a higher proportion of combustion-engine vehicles would make 
additional supply chain decarbonisation measures necessary in 
order  to  achieve  the  CO2e  targets.  Geopolitical  risks  can  also 
have a significant impact on the BMW Group’s ability to achieve 
climate targets. 

External market-specific developments in the supply chain may 
also  lead  to  the  decarbonisation  of  energy-intensive  upstream 
stages in particular taking a different course than planned. Not 
all factors that impact decarbonisation can be directly influenced, 
particularly  in  the  production  of  CO2e-intensive  raw  materials 
such as steel and aluminium and the subsequent value creation 
stages in the supply chain. Furthermore, the ambitious forecasts 
of the International Energy Agency (IEA) – which are used to cal-
culate emissions in the use phase of electrified vehicles – may be 
missed if, for example, the use of renewable energy does not pro-
gress quickly enough. In contrast, additional actions, such as the 
provision of CO2e-free charging for customers, may result in an 
improvement in downstream Scope 3 emissions (Use phase). Fi-
nally,  changes  in  legally  prescribed  measurement  and  assess-
ment procedures may have an impact on the BMW Group's tar-
gets and their achievement. 

Implemented actions and metrics for a holistic CO2e 
reduction 
The overarching CO2e targets for all scopes are the basis for the 
specific actions that are an integral part of the corporate, product 
and  topic-specific  strategies  (including  Purchasing,  Develop-
ment, Production and Sales). Specific targets and implementa-
tion  steps  are  derived  from  the  overarching  goals  of  the  Com-
pany. 

The actions taken to reduce emissions are identified, assessed, 
approved and implemented individually for each scope. Particu-
larly as regards the own locations (Scope 1 and 2), these actions 
involve the gradual substitution of fossil fuels and making contin-
uous  increase  in  energy  efficiency  to  reduce  energy  require-
ments. To this end, emissions related to production are primarily 
reduced  through  energy  efficiency  actions  and  the  use  of 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
123 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

renewable energies to substitute fossil fuels. ↗ Energy Efficiency and 
renewable Energy 

In  the  area  of  own  emissions  (Scope  1  and  2),  a  reduction  of 
around 38,000 t CO2e was achieved compared to the previous 
year as a result of new measures implemented in the reporting 
year. The reduction from the procurement of biomethane at the 
Spartanburg plant (USA) and from the conversion from fossil fuel 
district heating to district heating from wood chips at the plant in 
Steyr (Austria) have made a significant contribution to this. 

Scope 3 emissions in the categories Purchased goods and ser-
vices, Logistics and Use phase account for the largest share of 
the  BMW Group’s  total  CO2e  emissions.  As  a  result,  the  Com-
pany’s CO2e reduction measures are focused on these areas in 
particular. 

The  BMW  Group  has  established  the  reduction  of  CO2e  emis-
sions in the supply chain as a key criterion when awarding con-
tracts to suppliers. Since 2021, the requirement to use electricity 
from  renewable  sources  has  applied  to  both  our  direct  (tier  1) 
suppliers  and  to  energy-intensive  pre-production  (n-tier)  pro-
cesses involved in the production of CO2e-intensive components 
and materials. Other measures include the use of secondary ma-
terials.  This  represents  an  important  contribution  to  the  decar-
bonisation of the supply chain on the part of the Company. The 
BMW Group  reviews  the  effectiveness  of  the  CO2-reducing 
measures in its series production annually in cooperation with a 
specialised  external  service  provider.  71  suppliers  were  as-
sessed in this regard in 2024. In the reporting year, verified and 
implemented actions reduced supply chain emissions by around 
2.8 million t CO2e. It is expected that it will be possible to reduce 
CO2e emissions again in subsequent years based on measures 
in the supply chain. In 2024, the BMW Group started to review 
the implementation concepts of new suppliers with contracts that 
stipulate the use of electricity from renewable sources prior to se-
ries production. 

Moreover  the  Supply  Chain  Programme  of  the  NGO  CDP  (for-
merly the Carbon Disclosure Project) is used to assess the per-
formance  of  the  supply  chain  in  terms  of  reducing  CO2e  emis-
sions. Participating suppliers are provided support with defining 
CO2e reduction targets, integrating them into their business pro-
cesses and reporting on the progress made on a regular basis. 
Associated with this is a rating from which the BMW Group de-
rives measures for supplier development and empowerment. In 
2024, 271 suppliers took part in the rating. This corresponds to 
79% of the BMW Group’s direct production-related purchasing 
volume. 

The BMW Group is also starting to use nature-based materials 
in the production of its vehicles to reduce CO2e emissions related 
to components. This includes using renewable plant-based raw 
materials for certain components, such as panelling elements in 
vehicle interiors. In future, the BMW Group intends to use renew-
able  raw  materials  for  the  production  of  seat  covers  or  interior 
panelling elements. 

The  BMW Group  is  making  a  significant  contribution  to  further 
reducing CO2e emissions in the use phase by electrifying the en-
tire product portfolio across all automobile brands. The Group is 
also developing established drivetrain technologies with the aim 
of achieving greater efficiency (EfficientDynamics technologies) 
and adding new technologies to the drivetrain mix, for example 
hydrogen drive technology. The increased use of electricity from 
renewable  sources  for  charging  electrified  vehicles  is  another 
area where the BMW Group has the potential to ramp up its de-
carbonisation performance. The BMW Group is actively involved 
in the expansion of the charging infrastructure and is committed 
to supporting this goal worldwide. The BMW Group also fosters 
the  development  and  use  of  sustainable  fuels.  ↗ Innovations  and 
Product Technologies 

The BMW Group has been pursuing the aim of continuing emis-
sions-reduced  transportation  within  its  global  production  and 

retail network since 2015. About half of the vehicles produced by 
the BMW Group leave its plants by rail. Electricity from renewable 
sources is used for some of the rail transport involved in our lo-
gistics within Germany. In addition to second-generation biofuels 
(for example HVO 100, produced from residual and waste ma-
terials),  all-electric  heavy  commercial  vehicles  have  been  in-
creasingly deployed for transporting goods at the Group’s main 
plant in Munich since 2023. Bio LNG (bio liquefied natural gas) 
has also been used on the road in a number of series transport 
processes  in  Germany  and  the  UK.  Moreover,  the  BMW Group 
has been involved in the “H2Haul” research project since 2022 
in addition to the “HyCET” research project, in order to gain early 
experience in the use of hydrogen trucks. 

The implementation and financing of actions and the measure-
ment of target achievement are all part of long-term corporate 
planning. Taking measures into account in the financial planning 
process ensures that adequate funding is available to implement 
them in the relevant periods. 

The implementation of these CO2e reduction measures is initially 
geared towards the year 2030. However, the measures extend 
well beyond 2030 in many areas, such as the adaptation of the 
product portfolio or making it possible to operate new sites with-
out the use of fossil fuels. This also supports our aim to achieve 
Net Zero across the entire value chain by 2050 at the latest. 

Greenhouse gas emissions along the entire value chain  
Absolute  CO2e  emissions  are  presented  for  the  reporting  year 
and  are  disclosed  per  scope  and  per  relevant  category 
↗ CO2e footprint. Emissions are presented and disclosed in line with 
the structure and requirements of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol 
and the relevant emission factors for each scope and category. 
These are reviewed as part of the annual data gathering process 
and updated if necessary. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
124 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

In 2024, the BMW Group’s CO2e emissions, excluding biogenic 
CO2 emissions,  totalled  836,963 t  CO2e  in  Scope  1  and  2  and 
130,297,238 t CO2e in Scope 3. 

These absolute CO2e emissions are set in relation to net sales 
revenue in accordance with the ESRS requirements. For the re-
porting year 2024, this so called ↗ Greenhouse gas intensity is 933 t 
CO2e/€ million according to the market-based method and 941 t 
CO2e/€  million  according  to  the  location-based  method.  The 
BMW Group expects that the targets that have been set will re-
duce this figure over the next few years. In the 2024 reporting 
year,  the  relative  reporting  metrics  for  CO2e  emissions  from 
BMW Group locations (Scope 1 and 2) are 0.27 t CO2e per vehi-
cle produced,1 and 13.55 t CO2e per vehicle produced for CO2e 
emissions from the supply chain.1 

With regard to Scope 3 emissions, the assessment criteria of the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol were used to determine the relevant 
categories.  The  decision  of  which  categories  to  disclose  was 
made on the basis of volumes and proportion, measurability, the 
ability  of  the  BMW Group  to  influence  the  emissions  volumes, 
and the degree of risk. ↗ Materiality of the various Scope 3 categories 

Emissions in Scope 3 categories 2 (Capital goods), 3 (Fuel and 
energy-related activities), 5 (Waste generated in operations), 8 
(Upstream leased assets), 10 (Processing of sold products), 13 
(Downstream  leased  assets)  and  15  (Investments)  are  not  re-
ported for reasons of materiality, as they account for around 3% 
of  total  emissions  and  are  not  significant.  The  BMW Group  is 
therefore focusing on the emissions that are considered relevant 
in terms of the absolute volumes involved (category 1, Purchased 
goods and services, categories 4 and 9, Logistics, and category 
11, Use of sold products) and those that can be directly or indi-
rectly  influenced  by  the  BMW Group  ↗ Materiality  of  the  various 
Scope 3 categories. The significant categories included in the report 
cover 97% of the BMW Group’s total Scope 3 emissions. 

The BMW Group's greenhouse gas emissions are calculated us-
ing  recognised  data  sources  and  methods.  These  include  the 
specialised software LCA for Experts, which is used to analyse 
the  value  chain  and  calculate  the  Global  Warming  Potential 
(GWP) values of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
(IPCC). Until reliable primary data is available, for example based 
on emission measurements performed in the supply chain by the 
suppliers themselves, values from databases are used instead of 
primary data (0%). These values are adjusted in certain cases 
using more precise secondary data, provided that measures to 
reduce the CO2e emissions of relevant suppliers are verifiable. 

CO2e emissions of the BMW Group2 

in t 

It is currently not possible to compare this data across compa-
nies. The BMW Group has a long-term objective of developing a 
CO2e accounting system based on real data. The first steps have 
already been taken with the Catena-X project. Information about 
the system boundaries (upstream and downstream value chain), 
information  on  evaluation  using  market-  and  location-based 
methods  and  the  data  gathering  methods  can  be  found  in  the 
↗ CO2e footprint and is explained in the glossary. 

The metrics for the Motorcycles segment were included in the re-
porting metrics for Scope 3 supply chain (upstream) and the use 
phase (downstream) for the first time in the 2024 financial year. 
These values were initially collected as an extrapolation in line 
with the processes for the Automotive segment. 

95,194,016

CO2e emissions per vehicle produced (automotive)1 

35,103,222

0

672,542

164,421

Scope 1

Scope 2

Scope 3
Upstream

Scope 3
Downstream

in t 

BMW Group 
locations

Supply Chain

0.27

0.28

0.40

13.55

13.91

13.13

Developing  generally  recognised  standards  for  the  automotive 
industry, and ideally across industries, is a crucial step in ensur-
ing that emissions data can be compared properly across com-
panies. 

0

2024

2023

2019

1 Assurance level: reasonable assurance. Additional information is available in ↗ Glossary and Ex-

planation of Key Figures. 

2 Scope 2 emissions according to the market-based method. According to the location-based 

method, the Scope 2 emissions amount to 1,304,971 t CO2e. Additional information is available 
in ↗ Glossary and Explanation of Key Figures. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
125 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

From the 2025 financial year onwards, the BMW Group’s sus-
tainability reporting will be expanded to include Scope 3 category 
14 (Franchise). This category comprises the global retail network 
for  the  BMW  and  MINI  brands  (excluding  own  branches).  The 
global retail network of the BMW Group’s Automotive segment 
currently comprises around 4,800 sales locations. As the retail 
network is considered part of the downstream value chain, the 
associated activities are also included in the BMW Group's Scope 
3  emissions.  In  tandem  with  the  data  gathering  process,  the 
preparation ofCO2e targets for the global retail network and the 
development of a pathway for achieving these targets began in 
2024. The BMW Group plans to prepare measures by the end of 
2025  that  align  the  sales  organisation's  CO2e targets  with  the 
BMW Group’s overarching targets. 

This  ensures  that  emissions  from  significant  emission  sources 
along the entire value chain, including the sales organisation, are 
fully documented and reduced in a targeted manner from 2025 
onwards. 

In addition to absolute CO2e emissions, the BMW Group also as-
sesses its fleet carbon emissions limits in the use phase. Despite 
a slowdown in the upwards sales trend for electrified vehicles in 
the 2024 reporting year, the BMW Group was able to further re-
duce its fleet carbon emissions in the main sales markets of the 
EU, USA, and China by increasing the BEV share. 

Within the EU1, average fleet carbon emissions, taking into ac-
count  regulatory  requirements2  and  in  accordance  with  WLTP, 
were  99.5 g  CO2/km2.  This  is  equivalent  to  reducing  the 
↗ CO2 emissions of the new vehicle fleet EU by a further 2.6 g compared 
to  the  previous  year  (2023:  102.1 g  CO2/km).  In  the  reporting 
year, the BMW Group remained significantly below the legal ap-
plicable  limit  of  approximately  130.1  g  CO2/km  by  30.6  g 
CO2/km. This continues the trend seen in recent decades, driven 
by  the  electrification  of  the  vehicle  fleet  and  the  fleet-wide  de-
ployment of innovative technologies ↗ EfficientDynamics technologies. 

In the US market, the BMW Group once again met the regulatory 
GHG fleet consumption requirements during the reporting year. 
This was achieved using self-generated credits as well as credits 
carried over from previous years. The BMW Group did not pur-
chase  any  credits  from  other  manufacturers  for  the  reporting 
year. The requirements were therefore met without exception by 
using  self-generated,  existing  credits.  The  volume-weighted 
↗ CO2  fleet  carbon emissions  (US  market)3  averaged  114.6 g  CO2/km2 
(model year 2023: 126.5 g CO2/km). The increasing proportion 
of electric vehicles had a particularly significant effect in terms of 
reducing emissions. 

The  volume-weighted  ↗ CO2  fleet  carbon  emissions  in  China  were 
141.9 g  CO2/km2  according  to  the  WLTC  test  cycle  (2023: 
146.4 g CO2/km WLTC). The BMW Group has also met the ap-
plicable regulatory CAFC fleet consumption requirements in that 
market. 

The BMW Group’s ↗ global fleet carbon emissions in the reporting year 
averaged 185.0 g CO2e/km2 (2023: 191.8 g CO2e/km4). These 
metrics  correspond  to  a  decrease  of  18.4%  compared  to  the 
base year 2019 (2019: 226.8 g CO2e/km4). As in previous years, 
when  calculating  the  emissions  metrics,  the  BMW Group  takes 
into account volume-weighted fleet carbon emissions (including 
upstream emissions for fuel and electric charging) in the EU, the 
USA, and China and standardises them in accordance with the 
WLTP. With a share of more than 80% of BMW Group deliveries, 
these  three  core  markets  and  regions  form  a  reliable  basis  for 
calculating global average fleet carbon emissions. 

The BMW Group is involved in associations and also participates 
independently in political debates on future requirements related 
to  carbon  legislation  in  individual  markets.  The  Company  sup-
ports the development of harmonised national and international 
regulations. Establishing comparable requirements creates a re-
liable and predictable framework which can make an important 
contribution  to  effectively  countering  the  effects  of  climate 
change. We provide information on the BMW Group’s most im-
portant  climate  policy  positions  and  activities  in  our  ↗ Climate 
Engagement Report. 

Use of an internal carbon price to assess vehicle projects 
An ↗ internal carbon price is used as a shadow price in the develop-
ment  phase  of  vehicle  projects  (automobiles)  to  assess  the 
measures taken to reduce carbon emissions in the use phase. 

This carbon price was determined on the basis of fleet regula-
tions in the EU. These regulations stipulate a penalty of 95 € per 
gram of CO2 for each unit sold if the target is not met. The value 
is converted over an assumed mileage of 200,000 km to a price 
of 475 € per tonne of CO2. Vehicle projects are managed directly 
based on impacts in g CO2/km while drawing on expected vehicle 
emissions and their impact on the BMW Group fleet. 

The  penalties  that  may  be  imposed  are  appropriate  when  as-
sessing measures as they directly represent the costs that would 
be  incurred  if  the  targets  were  not  met.  The  costs  of  carbon 
measures can therefore be directly compared to potential pen-
alty payments and used as a basis for assessing emissions from 
the use phase. The BMW Group’s internal carbon price is applied 
to 100% of Scope 3 CO2e emissions from the use phase of the 
automobile sector. In the 2024 reporting year, this price was ap-
plied to 90,667,226 t CO2e. This is equivalent to 69.1% of the 
total CO2e emissions of the BMW Group. 

1 EU-27 countries including Norway and Iceland. 
2 Assurance level: reasonable assurance. 
3 Converted from g/mi to g/km for comparison purposes. 
4 The calculated emissions include upstream emissions from supplying fuel. In the current data set 
provided for this purpose, Sphera uses the new IEA Methane Tracker. This determined that me-
thane flaring was significantly more frequent during crude oil production than in previous years. 
Due to the significant influence that this effect has on the aforementioned indicator, the previous 
years were re-baselined back to 2019. Excluding this effect, the previous year's value was 
185.4 g CO2e/km and the value in 2019 was 218.5 g CO2e/km. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
126 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

In the supply chain, however, the actions taken to achieve targets 
for each material group are managed based on the required level 
of carbon reduction and the necessary avoidance costs. The pro-
cess is carried out annually with the involvement of the Purchas-
ing  and  Supplier  Network,  Development  and  Finance  depart-
ments. Similarly, the actions taken to achieve Scope 1 and 2 tar-
gets are managed based on the specific avoidance costs. A con-
tinuous coordination process ensures that requirements arising 
from changing conditions are reliably taken into account and that 
mitigation measures in the supply chain are optimised. 

Preparing for Net Zero 
The  BMW Group  intends  to  achieve  Net  Zero  by  2050,  which 
means  reducing  CO2e  emissions  across  all  scopes  within  the 
value  chain  by  at  least  90%  compared  to  the  base  year.  To 
achieve this target at this point in time, the BMW Group focuses 
within the preparation of Net Zero on the decarbonization of its 
value chain. All emissions that cannot be technically reduced fur-
ther at the point of Net Zero (maximum 10% of total base year 
CO2e  emissions)  must  be  neutralised  from  that  point  onwards 
using permanent carbon sinks. 

Internal  carbon  prices  are  not  used  for  financial  reporting  pur-
poses.  They  are  not  used  when  assessing  the  duration  of  use 
and residual value of assets, assessing the possible impairment 
of assets or measuring the fair value of assets acquired through 
corporate  takeovers.  However,  the  BMW Group’s  corporate 
planning  does  incorporate  volume-  and  price-related  assump-
tions for emission allowances under the EU Emissions Trading 
System (ETS). These premises are also factored into the impair-
ment testing process for assets in the Automotive segment. 

The BMW Group has been supporting the development of new 
permanent CO2e sequestration methods since 2024 to drive the 
development of these carbon sinks. These efforts have included 
purchasing certificates from biochar projects. 

CO2e certificates cancelled in the reporting year* 

Total (in t CO2e) 

Share from removal projects (in %) 

Share from reduction projects (in %) 

Sink-type biochar (in %) 

Recognised quality standards CSI/C-Sink (in %) 

Share of projects within the EU (in %) 

Share of projects with corresponding adjustments (in %) 

CO2e certificates planned to be cancelled in the future (in t CO2e) 

Until and including reporting year 2026 

* Additional information is available in ↗ Glossary and Explanation of Key Figures. 

The BMW Group is financing the permanent storage of initial vol-
umes equivalent to 25,000 t of CO2e in cooperation with partners 
including Atmosfair and Firstclimate. By this means, it is intended 
to foster the scaling of promising Carbon Dioxide Removal (CDR) 
technologies  at  an  early  stage  in  order  to  also  prepare  for  the 
BMW Group’s sub-target of neutralising a maximum 10% of its 
base year CO2e emissions at the point of Net Zero by 2050 at 
the latest. 

The  BMW  Group  supports  these  projects  voluntarily,  which 
means their yields are not counted towards the Group's CO2e tar-
gets. The projects are certified by independent institutions in line 
with international standards (for example CSI/EBC C-Sink) and 
have to meet a set of strict quality criteria as for instance perma-
nence and additionality of the CO2e storage effects. 

2024 

25,000 

100 

– 

100 

100 

– 

– 

  46,000 – 57,500 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
127 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

consumption  of  production  processes.  The  purpose  of  these 
groups is to minimise impacts on the environment accordingly. 

The BMW Group is committed to protecting people and the envi-
ronment by acting responsibly beyond the confines of its plants. 
It is therefore expanding its influence throughout the value chain 
by  establishing  partnerships  and  dialogue  formats  with  policy-
makers,  business  partners  and  external  partners  such  as  cus-
tomers,  suppliers,  contractual  partners  and  non-governmental 
organisations (NGOs). As a global company, the BMW Group is 
in  continuous  dialogue  with  a  large  number  of  external  stake-
holders  in  Germany  and  abroad  regarding  environmental  mat-
ters. These include affected communities and indigenous people. 
↗ Stakeholder Engagement,  ↗ Social and Environmental Responsibility in the 
Supplier Network 

We  inform  the  public  about  our  environmental  objectives  and 
measures in a variety of ways. We also use events, conferences, 
presentations and plant tours to engage in dialogue with differ-
ent  target  groups.  Publications,  brochures  and  environmental 
statements  from  the  individual  plants,  the  BMW  Group  Report 
and the websites of the BMW Group and its plants provide addi-
tional transparency about our activities. 

H O L I S T I C   E N V I R O N M E N T A L  
M A N A G E M E N T   W I T H I N   T H E  
B M W   G R O U P  

is  an 

Protecting  the  environment 
important  pillar  of  the 
BMW Group’s sustainability strategy. The BMW Group takes ac-
tion to protect the environment at every stage of the vehicle life 
cycle, from the supply chain through to production and the end of 
the use phase. The BMW Group incorporates ecological effects 
into its planning and activities at an early stage and assesses en-
vironmental impacts, risks and opportunities. 

Within the BMW Group’s global production network, energy and 
resource efficiency as well as the control of resource consump-
tion have been integral parts in the environmental management 
system for decades. Alongside CO2e emissions, the other indica-
tors are energy and potable water consumption, waste for dis-
posal,  and  solvent  emissions.  Biodiversity  is  also  analysed  for 
each site individually. 

The environmental policy addresses the impacts, risks and op-
portunities  identified  as  material  at  the  properties  of  the 
BMW Group  in  the  areas  of  water,  energy  and  climate  change 
↗ List of material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities. All of the actions we 
take  are  in  compliance  with  legislation,  regulations  and  stand-
ards. A certified environmental management system in accord-
ance with ISO 14001 has been implemented at all BMW Group 
production sites. Moreover, all the BMW Group’s German plants 
are certified under the EMAS environmental management sys-
tem. The requirements of these regulations are specified in bind-
ing specifications such as the BMW Group working instructions 
and guidelines, the BMW Group Management Manual (for qual-
ity,  environmental  protection,  occupational  safety,  ergonomics, 
health management and corporate security including information 
protection), in process descriptions and procedural instructions, 
as  well  as  in  work  orders  and  standard  operating  procedures. 
The monitoring process of the environmental policy is based on 
annual audits which are required in order to meet the aforemen-
tioned regulations. 

By providing information and training, we promote and develop 
a sense of responsibility for the environment among our employ-
ees. The BMW Group’s environmental policy requires and facili-
tates environmentally friendly conduct throughout the entire or-
ganisation. This helps our workforce to play their part in improv-
ing the environmental performance of the BMW Group. Manag-
ers  act  as  role  models  and  the  BMW Group  provides  targeted 
training and further education in this area. Proposals and ideas 
for improving operational processes and improving our environ-
mental  performance  are  assessed  internally  in  the  “cre8”  idea 
management programme. 

The Board of Management is responsible for the implementation 
of the environmental policy. Managers bear particular responsi-
bility for implementing and living out the environmental and en-
ergy policy and motivating their employees accordingly. Environ-
mental protection training is mandatory for managers. The dele-
gation chain assigns operator responsibility to site management. 
Each  facility,  each  building  and  each  area  is  allocated  to  a  re-
sponsible  operator  who  is  responsible  for  the  products,  pro-
cesses,  facilities  and  technical  systems  in  their  area.  Environ-
mental  protection units  support  and  advise  operators  and  em-
ployees  at  each  site.  These  units  consist  of  the  environmental 
management officers and the officers for waste, water protection 
and  immission  control.  These  individuals  are  responsible  for 
making production processes as environmentally friendly as pos-
sible in line with the environmental objectives. The BMW Group 
uses a number of tools to help operators fulfil their responsibili-
ties,  including  operator  inspections,  regular  meetings  and  an 
emergency communication system. 

At company level, the department for Strategy, Planning, Envi-
ronmental protection and Energy Management advises the net-
work of environmental protection units. This department heads 
up  regular  meetings  involving  the  plants’  environmental  man-
agement officers in the Environmental Protection Steering Com-
mittee. The steering committee coordinates environmental pro-
tection activities in the area of production throughout the Group. 
The sites of the BMW Group also have cross-technology energy 
groups which are tasked with continuously optimising the energy 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
128 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

E N E R G Y   E F F I C I E N C Y   A N D   R E N E W A B L E   E N E R G Y  

Material impacts, risks and opportunities 

  Type 

Stage of the 
value chain    Policies 

Globally, the network of sales partners consumes energy - and thereby uses natural resources and contrib-
utes to climate change. 

  Negative  
Impact 

  −  None 

  Targets 

  −  None 

  Specific actions 

  −  None 

Concluding power purchase agreements support the development of more renewable energy capacity and 
saving resources and emissions. 

  Positive  
Impact 

Risk of limitations in the use of certain energy sources due to regulatory restrictions, which may confine their 
application to specific sectors or require physical delivery. As a result of these limitations some energy 
sources cannot be used for emission reduction measures. 

  Risk 

  −  Energy policy 

−  Environmental policy 

↗ Holistic Environmental Manage-
ment within the BMW Group 

  −  Reduction of energy consumption by 

25% by 2030 

  −  Energy efficiency measures to opti-
mise production technology and 
building services 

−  Replacement of old and inefficient 
systems with new systems that are 
more efficient 

−  Development of new processes that 
are more efficient and more envi-
ronmentally friendly 

−  Replacement of fossil fuels with re-

newable energy sources 

Globally, the network of supplier locations consumes energy - and thereby uses natural resources and con-
tributes to climate change. 

  Negative  
Impact 

New or changing worldwide government regulations on energy use could require to adjust operations in the 
supply chain. 

  Risk 

−  BMW Group Climate Strategy 

↗ Climate change mitigation and 
adaptation as a key part of the  
corporate strategy 

  −  Reduce Scope 1, Scope 2 and 

Scope 3 emissions by at least 40 m 
tonnes CO2e by 2030 

  −  Supply chain: use of electricity from 
renewable sources* and secondary 
materials 

↗ Path to achieving the CO2e reduc-
tion targets in 2030 

↗ Implemented actions and metrics 
for a holistic CO2e reduction 

        Upstream material          Own Operations material          Downstream material 

* See ↗ Glossary for a definition of electricity from renewable sources. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
129 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

The BMW Group attaches great importance to energy consump-
tion and energy efficiency throughout the company. Our targets 
and the actions we take to reduce energy consumption are am-
bitious. Instead of focusing exclusively on our energy costs, we 
give  the  same  level  of  emphasis  to  reducing  CO2e  emissions 
through  the  increased  use  of  renewable  energy  sources.  The 
Group’s  direct  responsibility  for  its  production  processes  is  the 
starting point for these efforts. One of the criteria which we look 
at when awarding contracts is the use of electricity from renew-
able sources by direct suppliers (Tier 1 suppliers) and in energy-
intensive  processes  of  pre-production  stages  (N-tier  suppliers) 
involved in the manufacture of CO2e-intensive components and 
materials.  Energy  is  a  material  topic  for  the  BMW  Group  at  all 
stages of the value chain. The effects of energy consumption in 
the  supply  chain  and  in  the  downstream  value  chain  are  pre-
sented separately in ↗ Climate change mitigation and adaptation as a key 
part of the corporate strategy. 

Energy management 
The  BMW Group’s  energy  management  system  includes  a 
Group-wide energy policy which assigns clear roles – each with 
corresponding responsibilities, targets and reporting obligations 
–  to  central  strategy  departments,  regional  management  units 
and sites at the local level. This facilitates the mitigation of the 
direct  impacts  and  risks  identified  in  relation  to  energy  at  the 
BMW Group’s own operations. The energy management system 
covers  structural  planning,  system  design,  the  procurement  of 
energy and technical equipment as well as the management of 
the property portfolio. 

Energy management regulations apply to all important energy-
related  processes  and  properties  throughout  the  BMW  Group. 
The requirements therefore apply to all geographical areas and 
all  locations  under  the  operational  control  of  the  BMW  Group. 
Overall responsibility for energy management lies with the Board 
of Management and extends across all organisational levels. 

The BMW Group uses electricity from renewable sources at the 
majority of its properties, including its own photovoltaic systems 
(PV). Additional PV systems were installed at the plants in Berlin 
(Germany),  Leipzig  (Germany)  and  Rosslyn  (South  Africa)  in 
2024.  The  Group  also  began  the  process  of  getting  additional 

photovoltaic systems set up at other locations. The BMW Group 
sources  energy  (electricity,  heating,  steam,  and  cooling)  exter-
nally  using  direct  supply  contracts  for  regenerative  energy 
(23%), including Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) as well as 
from Energy Attribute Certificates (62%). These guarantees cer-
tify that the energy we procure comes from renewable sources. 

Clear internal guidelines ensure that biomethane is procured and 
used  in  line  with  regulatory  requirements.  The  BMW  Group  is 
progressively transitioning to using alternative sources for heat-
ing purposes, including biomass, geothermal energy, and power-
to-heat technologies. Boreholes are being drilled for a geother-
mal plant at the Shenyang plant in China, while the foundations 
have already been laid for a wood chip heating plant at the Din-
golfing (Germany) plant. 

By  implementing  and  continuously  monitoring  environmental 
and energy policies, the BMW Group can mitigate risks, such as 
stricter environmental regulations or rising energy prices, while 
improving its environmental performance. 

A certified energy management system is in place for energy-in-
tensive  processes  and  locations  to  ensure  the  accuracy  and 
completeness of CO₂e and energy data, as well as the effective-
ness  of  our  energy  management  processes.  The  BMW  Group 
also uses regular reporting and mandatory internal and external 
audits for this purpose. 

The BMW Group has signed up to a number of initiatives, high-
lighting its commitment to climate and environmental protection. 
The  BMW Group  adheres  to  the  quality  criteria  of  the  RE100 
standard  when  purchasing  electricity  from  renewable  sources. 
Since 2020, all of the external electricity used for production at 
all of the BMW Group’s plants worldwide has come from renew-
able sources. The majority of our non-production sites are also 
powered by electricity from renewable sources. 

We foster close relationships with stakeholders - including local 
businesses,  politicians  and  all  relevant  internal  parties  - to  en-
sure that their interests are taken into account when we imple-
ment energy- and location-specific projects. A detailed descrip-
tion  of  the  strategy  development  process  and  our  approach  to 
engaging with external and internal stakeholders can be found in 
↗ The BMW Group Strategy and ↗ Stakeholder Engagement. 

Energy targets 
The BMW Group is committed to continuously implementing en-
ergy efficiency measures. It has set itself the target of reducing 
its energy consumption per vehicle produced by 25% by 2030 
compared to the 2016 base year.* Progress toward these energy 
targets is tracked in an ongoing monitoring process. Each year, 
energy targets for internal management are set for the following 
year. These are based on historical energy consumption, com-
pleted  and  planned  measures,  as  well  as  factors  like  capacity 
and utilisation rates. The target is a relative target per unit pro-
duced,  measured  in  megawatt  hours  (MWh).  The  energy  effi-
ciency target is directly linked to controlling absolute CO₂e emis-
sions in the context of the BMW Group’s planning processes. 

The targets are established based on an analysis of the market 
environment combined with an assessment of technical feasibil-
ity. The analysis of technically feasible measures incorporates in-
sights from technologic innovations. 

The objective of saving energy and increasing the use of renew-
able  energy  primarily  involves  internal  stakeholders,  such  as 
plant managers, whose opinions and interests are incorporated 
into the target-setting process. When it comes to using renewa-
ble  energy,  local  stakeholders  within  the  energy  infrastructure 
are engaged as needed. 

* Target for global vehicle production (BMW Group plants and partner plants). The efficiency target 
is based on internal historical data. It is specific to the Company and is not aligned with a science-
based approach. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
130 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

Changes in production planning, the introduction of new produc-
tion plants and modifications to technical systems can have an 
impact on our progress towards achieving these energy targets. 
End-of-year forecasts are developed and monitored monthly for 
all  targets  using  an  automated  dashboard.  Progress  for  2024 
was on track with the original plan. This same approach is used 
to manage Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO₂e emissions targets. 

Efficiency measures and energy mix 
In 2024, the BMW Group undertook a broad range of initiatives 
to meet carbon and energy efficiency targets at its locations.  

The measures implemented to reduce energy consumption can 
be summarised as follows: 

—  Energy efficiency measures to optimise production technol-

ogy and building services 

—  Replacement  of  old  and  inefficient  systems  with  new  sys-

tems that are more efficient 

—  Development of processes that are more efficient and more 

environmentally friendly 

In  the  2024  financial  year,  the  BMW  Group's  total  ↗ energy 
consumption amounted to 6,205,004 MWh, with 48.5% sourced 
from  renewables.  ↗ Energy  consumption  per  vehicle  produced  was 
1.94 MWh, lower than in the previous year (2023: 1.97 MWh). 

In addition to fossil fuels and renewables, the average electricity 
mix supplied to the BMW Group also included 12,037 MWh from 
nuclear energy, which accounted for 0.2% of total energy con-
sumption. 

Additionally, some of the fuel procured by the BMW Group was 
used  to  generate  556,173 MWh  of  electricity  in  the  Group’s 
highly efficient combined heat and power plants in the reporting 
year. 

Energy consumption per vehicle produced (automotive)3 

in MWh 

1.94

1.97

2.21

The  BMW  Group’s  ↗ energy  intensity  for  the  2024  financial  year 
(measured as total energy consumption in MWh per million euros 
of net revenue) stood at 44.13 MWh/€ million. 

0

Energy consumption and mix at BMW Group locations1 

2024

2023

2016

—  Replacement of fossil fuels with renewable energy sources 

in MWh 

The measures implemented in these categories cover all proper-
ties under the BMW Group’s operational control and all key en-
ergy-related  processes.  A  detailed  breakdown  of  the  contribu-
tions  from  each  category  is  not  provided  due  to  the  measures 
having  overlapping  effects  and  due to  external  factors  such  as 
seasonal weather. Financial resources are allocated annually for 
energy efficiency measures so that the BMW Group can meet the 
2030 energy efficiency target. Resources are made available for 
Scope 1 and 2 CO₂e reduction efforts on a rolling basis to align 
with  the  1.5°C  target  pathway.  These  extensive  measures un-
derscore  the  BMW Group’s  commitment  to  meeting  its  energy 
targets. 

Total energy consumption 

Total fossil energy consumption 

Fuel consumption from natural gas 

Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products 

Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from fossil sources2 

Share of fossil sources in total energy consumption (in %)2 

Total renewable energy consumption 

Fuel consumption from renewable sources, including biomass 

Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy 

Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from renewable sources 

Share of renewable sources in total energy consumption (in %) 

2024 

6,205,004 

3,195,726 

2,673,521 

7,005 

515,200 

51.5 

3,009,278 

166,907 

5,603 

2,836,768 

48.5 

1 For more information, see ↗ Glossary and Explanation of Key Figures. 
2 In the average electricity mix supplied to the BMW Group considered here, besides fossil shares, 

renewable and nuclear components are also included. 

3 Additional disclosure. Assurance level of the years 2023 and 2024: reasonable assurance. Addi-

tional information is available in ↗ Glossary and Explanation of Key Figures.

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
131 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

R E D U C T I O N   O F   E N V I R O N M E N T A L   P O L L U T I O N  

Material impacts, risks and opportunities 

Contamination with microplastics due to tyre wear particles. 

Stage of the 
value chain    Policies 

  −  None yet 

  Type 

  Negative  
Impact 

Local pollution of water through unplanned discharges of polluting substances (e. g. leaks) at suppliers' pro-
duction sites. 

  Negative  
Impact 

Local pollution of soil through unplanned discharges of polluting substances (e. g. leaks) at suppliers' produc-
tion sites. 

  Negative  
Impact 

Risk and financial effect due to reputational damage to BMW Group's brand value with respect to controver-
sies in connection with pollution of water. 

  Risk 

Risk of supply chain shortages and delays in the BMW Group's supply chain in connection with pollution of 
water. 

  Risk 

Risk and financial effect due to reputational damage to BMW Group's brand value with respect to controver-
sies in connection with pollution of soil. 

  Risk 

Risk of supply chain shortages and delays in the BMW Group's supply chain in connection with pollution of 
soil. 

  Risk 

  −  Multistage due diligence process to 
uphold environmental and social 
standards in the supply chain (in-
cluding the BMW Group Supplier 
Code of Conduct) 

↗ Social and Environmental Re-
sponsibility in the Supplier Network 

↗ Due Diligence in the supplier net-
work 

−  Process for responsible raw mate-

rial management 

↗ Responsible raw material man-
agement 

        Upstream material          Own Operations material          Downstream material 

  Targets 

  −  None yet 

  Specific actions 

  −  Collaboration in the development of 
measurement methods for tyre 
abrasion 

  −  No targets that focus exclusively 
and thematically on material im-
pacts, risks, and opportunities  

  −  Commitment to initiatives 

−  Risk analysis 

−  Overarching targets for the proce-

dures used to perform due diligence 
in the supplier network 

↗ Social and Environmental Re-
sponsibility in the Supplier Network 

−  Sustainability questionnaire (online 

assessment) 

−  On-site assessments of supplier lo-

cations (on-site assessment) 

−  Complaints procedure  

↗ Preventive and remedial 
measures 

−  Certification and traceability of raw 

materials supply chains 

↗ Complaints procedure 

−  Implementation of local projects 

−  Analysis of the effectiveness of the 
processes and measures imple-
mented 

↗ Due Diligence in the supplier net-
work 

−  Objectives for local projects 

↗ Responsible raw material man-
agement 

↗ Social and Environmental Re-
sponsibility in the Supplier Network 

↗ Due Diligence in the supplier 
network 

↗ Risk analysis and control 
mechanisms 

↗ Preventive and remedial 
measures 

↗ Complaints procedure 

↗ Responsible raw material man-
agement 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
132 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

The BMW Group has a comprehensive environmental manage-
ment system at its own operations. Detailed checks and inspec-
tions are carried out during the planning and construction of new 
production and other sites with the aim of eliminating air, water, 
and soil pollution from the outset or reducing it as much as pos-
sible.  Extensive  measures  are  implemented  to  ensure  compli-
ance with limits. As a result, there are no significant impacts, risks 
or opportunities related to pollution within the BMW Group’s own 
operations.* 

The BMW Group assumes responsibility within its supply chain 
by monitoring processes and taking action to protect the environ-
ment.  A  materiality  assessment  identified  risks  and  impacts  in 
the supply chain related to soil and water. All guidelines, actions 
and  targets  for  actively  managing  these  material  impacts  and 
risks in the supply chain are part of the due diligence process for 
upholding  environmental  and  social  standards  within  the  sup-
plier  network.  These  are  elaborated  in  ↗ Social  and  Environmental 
Responsibility in the Supplier Network. 

The BMW Group’s products themselves do not present any ma-
terial concerns related to air, water, or soil pollution. Further de-
tails  about  applicable  emissions  standards  can  be  found  in  
↗ Consumption  and  Carbon  Disclosures  and  additional  information 
about emission technologies in ↗ Innovations and Product Technologies. 

During the use phase of the BMW Group’s products, tyre abra-
sion during driving produces microparticles which negatively im-
pact  the  environment.  Ongoing  discussions  on  standardised 
methods  for  measuring  tyre  abrasion  have  yet  to  yield  reliable 
definitions that accurately and comparably reflect the actual im-
pact of vehicles. For this reason, the BMW Group has not yet es-
tablished specific policies or targets aimed at reducing micropar-
ticles from tyre wear. 

Until relevant thresholds are laid down, the BMW Group will be 
actively involved in developing measurement procedures for tyre 
abrasion and reducing wear levels while working closely with in-
dustry associations. An obligation to meet any future thresholds 
will also be included in specifications for tyre suppliers. Systems 
are being implemented to establish internal processes for meas-
uring tyre wear. Tyre wear thresholds are expected to be pub-
lished in 2025 in line with the Euro 7 regulations, and will most 
likely be mandatory for tire manufacturers from 2028 onwards. 
The BMW Group will review these specifications and fully comply 
with the resulting requirements concerning tyre abrasion values 
through the manufacturers and then provide the disclosures re-
quired under ESRS regarding the quantification of microplastics 
generated during driving. 

* We have reported on volatile organic compounds (VOC) used in the production process in the 

past. This metric is no longer reported due to the switch to ESRS reporting and the resulting cate-
gorisation of air, water and soil pollution as immaterial in connection with our own operations. The 
BMW Group will continue to address this issue and monitor it internally. Information about site-
specific solvent emissions will continue to be published in the environmental statements of the 
EMAS-certified plants.

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
133 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

R E S P O N S I B L E   U S E   O F   W A T E R   R E S O U R C E S  

Material impacts, risks and opportunities 

  Type 

Stage of the 
value chain    Policies 

Limiting the availability of water and/or harming the ecosystem through water withdrawals within the supply 
chain especially in areas of high-water stress. 

  Negative  
Impact 

Local water scarcity and threat to water supply due to high water intensity in production processes of suppli-
ers and other preliminary products of BMW Group. 

  Negative  
Impact 

Risk and financial effect due to reputational damage to BMW Group's brand value with respect to controver-
sies in connection with water, specifically water consumption. 

  Risk 

Risk and financial effect due to reputational damage to BMW Group's brand value with respect to controver-
sies in connection with water, specifically water withdrawals. 

  Risk 

Risk of supply chain shortages and delays in the BMW Group's supply chain in connection with water, specifi-
cally water consumption. 

  Risk 

  −  Multistage due diligence process to 
uphold environmental and social 
standards in the supply chain (in-
cluding the BMW Group Supplier 
Code of Conduct)  

↗ Social and Environmental Re-
sponsibility in the Supplier Network 

↗ Due Diligence in the supplier net-
work 

−  Process for responsible raw  

material management 

↗ Responsible raw material man-
agement 

  Targets 

  Specific actions 

−  No targets that focus exclusively 
and thematically on material im-
pacts, risks and opportunities 

−  Commitment to initiatives 

−  Risk analysis 

−  Overarching targets for the proce-

dures used to perform due diligence 
in the supplier network 

↗ Social and Environmental Re-
sponsibility in the Supplier Network 

−  Sustainability questionnaire (online 

assessment) 

−  On-site assessments of supplier lo-

cations (on-site assessment) 

−  Complaints procedure 

↗ Preventive and remedial 
measures 

−  Certification and traceability of raw 

materials supply chains 

↗ Complaints procedure 

−  Implementation of local projects 

−  Analysis of the effectiveness of the 
processes and measures imple-
mented 

↗ Due Diligence in the supplier net-
work 

−  Objectives for local projects 

↗ Responsible raw material man-
agement 

↗ Social and Environmental Re-
sponsibility in the Supplier Network 

↗ Due Diligence in the supplier 
network 

↗ Risk analysis and control 
mechanisms 

↗ Preventive and remedial 
measures 

↗ Complaints procedure 

↗ Responsible raw material  
management 

New or changing worldwide government regulations regarding water consumption could require to adjust 
operations and therefore increase dependencies and availability due to exclusion. 

  Risk 

        Upstream material          Own Operations material          Downstream material 

  −  BMW Group Water Strategy 

  −  Reduce potable water consumption 

  −  Use of alternative water sources 

−  Environmental policy 

↗ Holistic Environmental Manage-
ment within the BMW Group 

by 25% by 2030 

−  Water treatment and reuse 

−  Innovation and technologies for re-

ducing water use 

−  Risk-based water strategy and 

monitoring 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
134 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

Using  water  responsibly  is  a  priority  for  the  BMW  Group.  The 
Company uses comprehensive water management policies and 
advanced  water-saving  and  treatment  technologies  to  reduce 
water  consumption  and  minimise  water  stress1  along  with  the 
associated  risks.  The  BMW Group  works  together  with  local 
stakeholders to ensure that it uses this valuable resource respon-
sibly. 

Using  potable  water  economically  has  long  been  an  essential 
component  of  the  BMW  Group’s  environmental  management 
system. All of our production facilities are required to reduce wa-
ter  consumption  and  use  alternative  sources  of  water,  such as 
rainwater.  The  management  of  and  responsibilities  for  the 
BMW Group’s own operations  are an integral part of the BMW 
Group’s  environmental  policy.  ↗ Holistic  Environmental  Management 
within the BMW Group 

All guidelines, actions, and targets for actively managing these 
material impacts and risks related to water withdrawal and water 
consumption in the upstream value chain are part of the due dil-
igence  process  for  upholding  environmental  and  social  stand-
ards within the supplier network. These are elaborated in ↗ Social 
and Environmental Responsibility in the Supplier Network. 

Water management and water protection 
Water is a critical resource in various stages of vehicle production 
including paint shop processes. Through the implementation of 
water-saving  processes  and  innovative  technologies  across  its 
global production network, the BMW Group successfully reduced 
water consumption per vehicle by over 30% between 2006 and 
2024. 

As  part  of  its  environmental  policy,  the  Group  follows  a  water 
strategy that begins with a detailed analysis of water risks. This 
strategy addresses the risk deemed material in the Group’s own 
operations. The BMW Group uses the Aqueduct Atlas to identify 
sites  in  regions  experiencing  high  or  very  high  water  stress 
↗ Measures to reduce water usage. Water  risks2  such  as  flooding  are 
taken into account in the site assessment process. ↗ Water-related 
impacts, risks and opportunities. 

The BMW Group’s process for selecting new production sites in-
corporates  the  responsible  management  of  local  water  re-
sources.  The  BMW  Group  takes  a  holistic  approach  to  ensure 
that protecting water resources is a top priority from the outset. 
Hydrological and hydrogeological conditions are analysed during 
the  site  selection  process  alongside  general  water  availability. 
Key considerations include groundwater depth, potential rises in 
groundwater  and  their  consequences,  groundwater  extraction 
and flows, and rainwater infiltration options. The geothermal po-
tential of the subsoil is also evaluated in this context. 

Engaging in dialogue with affected residents and interest groups 
is  an  important  part  of  the  site  selection  process  for  the  BMW 
Group. Insights gained from these discussions are carefully as-
sessed and factored into the BMW Group’s decisions. This ap-
proach helps us to identify potential impacts on communities or 
farmers  and  mitigate  them  ahead  of  time  with  targeted 
measures. 

The BMW Group assesses water risks based on the potential ef-
fects of water scarcity on its entire production network. Priorities 
are established and long-term measures are planned on the ba-
sis  of  these  assessments.  Detailed  implementation  plans  are 
created  to  support  these  measures.  These  plans  detail  the 
amount of investment required. Location-based monitoring pro-
vides insights that allow us to continuously adjust our measures. 
Assessing geographical conditions and collaborating with stake-
holders  are  an  integral  part  of  our  planning  process.  The 
BMW Group is planning to install a dry separation system in the 
paint shop at the Leipzig plant by 2027 to further reduce water 
consumption.  The  evaluation  system  we  use  for  our  sites  is 
based on the water stress index and updated as site conditions 
change.  This  allows  us  to  react  immediately  as  situations 
emerge.  Locations  in  areas  of  water  stress  are  identified  and 
listed in the ↗ Materiality Assessment. The production sites (exclud-
ing  motorcycles)  of  the  BMW Group  are  included  in  the  target 
management process as part of the BMW Group’s water strat-
egy. 

The  BMW Group’s  water  strategy  focuses  on  both  water  con-
sumption and water quality. Uniform standards for wastewater 
treatment technology apply across the Group in line with national 
legislation  and  applicable  limits.  In  Germany,  these  include the 
Ordinance on Installations for the Handling of Substances Haz-
ardous to Water, the Water Resources Act, the Ordinance on the 
Protection of Surface Waters, and the Groundwater Ordinance as 
implemented under the Water Framework Directive. Regular in-
spections are performed to ensure that these requirements are 
consistently met. Production sites without a connection to a pub-
lic water treatment plant operate their own water treatment facil-
ities. 

1 Water stress refers to the ratio of water availability to demand at a given location. Additional infor-

mation is available in ↗ Glossary and Explanation of Key Figures. 

2 Water risk includes flooding risks (coastal and surface water) and reputational risks related to en-
vironmental and social matters and compliance with the law. Water risk assessments look at the 
quantity and quality of the water that is available, in addition to access to water. Additional infor-
mation is available in ↗ Glossary and Explanation of Key Figures. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
135 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

The  BMW Group  is  also  committed  to  protecting  the  oceans. 
However,  as  no  material  impacts,  risks  or  opportunities  have 
been identified in this area, the BMW Group is not pursuing any 
specific strategies or practices in order to protect marine waters. 
Due  to  the  uncertainty  surrounding  the  environmental  conse-
quences of deep sea mining, the BMW Group joined the World 
Wildlife  Fund  (WWF)  and  other  companies  in  2021  to  issue  a 
joint  statement  pledging  not  to  extract  raw  materials  from  the 
deep sea ↗ BMW Group Biodiversity Policy. This commitment extends 
to the BMW Group's suppliers and their supply chains. 

Potable water consumption per vehicle produced 
(automotive)2 

in m3 

1.67

1.78

2.00

Water consumption in production reduced again 
The BMW Group has set itself the target of reducing the amount 
of potable water used in automobile production by 25% by 2030 
compared to the base year 2016.1 In the reporting period, spe-
cific ↗ potable water consumption per vehicle in automobile production was 
1.67 m3,  lower  than  in  the  previous  year  (2023:  1.78 m3/ 
–6.2%). A continuous decrease in water consumption has been 
recorded in line with the planning of the BMW Group. 

0

2024

2023

2016

The BMW Group places great emphasis on reducing water us-
age, and achieves this by using the latest technologies in its wa-
ter treatment and painting processes. Water-saving targets are 
voluntarily set for the BMW Group’s own operations on the basis 
of  technological  feasibility  studies.  Annual  site-specific  targets 
for relative water consumption in vehicle production are defined 
and monitored throughout the year to assess progress; this pro-
cess  is  particularly  relevant  for  management  and  other  on-site 
stakeholders, whose opinions and interests are incorporated into 
the target-setting process. 

The BMW Group evaluates water stress in the areas where indi-
vidual plants are located in addition to its impact on its entire pro-
duction  network.  If  existing  measures  have  successfully  allevi-
ated  water  stress,  these  findings  are  integrated  into  broader 
planning and risk assessments. Water stress can thus be contin-
uously reduced and responsible use of water resources ensured. 

The goal of sustainably decreasing (potable) water consumption 
applies across all sites within the BMW Group, regardless of their 
location. Targets in this area were defined on the basis of general 
environmental conditions and relationships rather than any spe-
cific  environmental  thresholds.  Measures  and  targets  incorpo-
rate water stress analyses performed with the Aqueduct Atlas on 
the basis of scientific insights into regional water availability. 

Measures to reduce water usage 
The BMW Group implements extensive measures to reduce wa-
ter consumption in regions experiencing high or very high water 
stress, such as the use of rainwater at the Chennai (India) plant. 
All measures are taken to support the BMW Group’s objective of 
reducing potable water consumption by 2030. The water con-
sumption in stress-affected regions is also included in the metric 
↗ Water consumption in water risk and stress areas. This figure comes to 
3,079,270 m3 at the sites in question. 

Water treatment and reuse are measures that can play a vital role 
in  the  sustainable  reduction  of  water  consumption.  Across  the 
BMW  Group,  the  ↗ total  water  recycled  and  reused  amounts  to 
4,778,429 m³. Modern circular systems, such as those used in 
paint shops, and cascading systems, which reuse process water 
multiple  times  before  painting,  significantly  reduce  freshwater 
consumption.  The  efficient  handling  of  freshwater,  wastewater 
treatment in paint shops and assembly wash stations, and the 
use of slightly contaminated greywater as industrial or process 
water decrease wastewater volumes notably. Insights from wa-
ter treatment processes and the targeted use of innovations and 
technologies  serve  to  enhance  water  efficiency.  Cascade  rinse 
systems are being implemented alongside water recycling sys-
tems,  while  painting  systems  are  being  converted  from  wet 
scrubbing to dry separation. During assembly, one of the most 
important  measures  is  the  recirculation  of  water  in  leak  test 
chambers. This plays a key role in terms of the Group reducing 
its water consumption by 2030. 

In  engine  production,  measures  such  as  switching  to  water-
based cooling lubricants and washing baths, the recirculation of 
emulsions  and  washing  baths,  extending  service  life  through 
bath  maintenance,  and  waste  water  treatment  systems  for  in-
dustrial waste water containing oil and heavy metals all contrib-
ute  to  the  reduction  of  water  consumption.  Measures  used  at 
motorcycle production sites include closed-loop treatment sys-
tems, vacuum distillation for recycling process water, and the use 
of closed cooling systems and water-saving fixtures. Implemen-
tation  of  the  measures  is  scheduled  for  target  achievement  by 
2030. 

1 Efficiency target for vehicle production (BMW Group plants, excluding partner plants and contract 

manufacturing) based on internal historical data. 

2 Additional disclosure. Additional information is available in ↗ Glossary and Explanations of Key 

Figures. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
136 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

The BMW Group ensures that the water strategy and its targets 
are implemented by making sure that the necessary resources 
are properly allocated. The investment planning of the Group in-
cludes drawing up a detailed plan of all of the measures which 
are required and the necessary capital and operating expenses. 
Continuous site-specific monitoring ensures that targets are met. 
Close collaboration and regular communication with stakehold-
ers provide a forum for identifying potential water risks and tak-
ing  appropriate  countermeasures,  particularly  in  regions  with 
high water stress. Water risks are also taken into account in the 
early stages of the process of selecting sites. 

The BMW Group performs water risk analyses using tools like the 
Aqueduct Atlas to identify high-risk areas and derives priorities 
for  specific  actions  from  these  analyses.  This  process  also  in-
volves  assessing  the  potential  cost  of  forced  downtime  due  to 
water shortages. Implementing a coordinated set of measures to 
conserve water and improve water quality contributes to mitigat-
ing water stress at affected sites. This approach also reduces the 
amount of financial risk to which the Company is exposed. 

The BMW Group moreover reduces freshwater usage in all pro-
duction areas by leveraging alternative water sources, including 
rainwater, recycled process water, and surface water. In Chennai, 
India,  for  example,  rainwater  is  collected  during  the  monsoon 
season,  which  can  cover  up  to  100%  of  the  annual  water  de-
mand. Similar alternative water use policies are planned for other 
BMW Group production facilities. 

The  BMW Group’s  ↗ total  water  consumption  amounted 
to 
5,813,743 m³ in the reporting year. The ↗ water intensity (total wa-
ter  consumption  in  m³  per  million  €  net  revenue)  is  currently 
41.35 m³/million  €.  In  addition,  as  at  31  December  2024, the 
BMW Group had a total amount of 455,525 m³ of ↗ stored water 
in systems including extinguishing water or rainwater tanks. 

Water consumption* 

in m3 

Total water consumption 

Total water consumption in areas at water risk, including 
areas of high water stress 

Total water recycled and reused 

Total water stored 

Changes in storage during the year 

2024 

5,813,743 

3,079,270 

4,778,429 

455,525 

333,720 

The implementation of the water strategy and associated objec-
tives  follows  a  risk-based  approach  that  accounts  for  regional 
specificities. The BMW Group takes particular care to implement 
additional measures to reduce water consumption in regions ex-
periencing  high  or  very  high  water  stress.  These  measures  in-
clude the extensive use of rainwater at the Chennai plant in India 
and the process water-free paint shop at the San Luis Potosí pro-
duction site in Mexico. 

* Additional information is available in ↗ Glossary and Explanation of Key Figures.

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
137 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

C O M M I T M E N T   T O   P R O T E C T I N G   B I O D I V E R S I T Y  

Material impacts, risks and opportunities 

Usage of primary raw materials impacts nature and biodiversity in extraction areas (e. g. mining). 

  Type 

  Negative  
Impact 

Contribution to biodiversity loss through the direct exploitation and use of invasive resource extraction meth-
ods in the supply chain (clearing, building infrastructure around (deep sea) mining and producing sites). 

  Negative 
Impact 

Risk of supply chain shortages and delays in the BMW Group's supply chain in connection with direct impact 
drivers of biodiversity loss, specifically direct exploitation. 

  Risk 

Risk and financial effect due to reputational damage to BMW Group's brand value with respect to controver-
sies in connection with direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss, specifically direct exploitation. 

  Risk  

Opportunities and financial benefits from increasing the supply chain resilience with respect to direct impact 
drivers of biodiversity loss, specifically direct exploitation, including independence from volatile markets or 
prevention of potentially supply-disrupting events. 

  Opportunity    

Stage of the 
value chain 

  Policies 

  −  Biodiversity Policy 

−  Multistage due diligence process to 
uphold environmental and social 
standards in the supply chain (in-
cluding the BMW Group Supplier 
Code of Conduct) 

↗ Social and Environmental Re-
sponsibility in the Supplier Network 

↗ Due Diligence in the supplier net-
work 

−  Process for responsible raw mate-

rial management 

↗ Responsible raw material man-
agement 

        Upstream material          Own Operations material          Downstream material  

  Targets 

  Specific actions 

  −  No targets that focus exclusively 
and thematically on material im-
pacts, risks and opportunities 

  −  Commitment to deforestation-free 

procurement 

−  Commitment to initiatives 

−  Implementation of local projects 

−  Multistage due diligence process to 
uphold environmental and social 
standards in the supply chain 

↗ Social and Environmental Re-
sponsibility in the Supplier Network  

↗ Due Diligence in the supplier net-
work 

−  Process for responsible raw mate-

rial management 

↗ Responsible raw material man-
agement 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
138 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

As part of its materiality assessment, the BMW Group identifies 
and evaluates potential impacts, risks and opportunities related 
to biodiversity. The assessment did not identify any negative im-
pacts related to land degradation, desertification, soil sealing, or 
endangered species. 

In  terms  of the  BMW Group’s  own  operations,  the  assessment 
found  that  the  BMW Group’s  environmental  management  sys-
tem is effective in ensuring that no material topics were identified 
in  direct  connection  with  the  Group’s  operations.  An  analysis* 
showed that the BMW Group's own operations do not have a sig-
nificant negative impact on nearby protected areas. 

In the supply chain, however, the extraction of raw materials was 
identified  as  a  material  topic.  The  BMW  Group  is  currently  as-
sessing whether any risks exist in this area and what actions may 
be required to minimise negative impacts on biodiversity.  

Great importance of intact ecosystems 
The BMW Group acts in line with the aims of the EU Biodiversity 
Strategy and the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Frame-
work. An internal guideline on protecting biodiversity and ecosys-
tems informs the actions of both the BMW Group and its supply 
chain. This guideline refers to the material impacts, risks and op-
portunities  that  have  been 
lays  out  the 
BMW Group’s  position  on  biodiversity.  ↗ BMW Group  Biodiversity 
Policy 

identified,  and 

The department for Sustainability and Mobility is responsible for 
the Group’s approach to biodiversity. Implementation of the rel-
evant topics relating to the supply chain is the responsibility of 
the Supply Chain Sustainability department.  

Holistic approach to sustainability targets 
Climate  change  is  impacting  land  and  marine  ecosystems 
around the world and jeopardising the stability of natural habi-
tats. This ultimately represents a threat to biodiversity itself. Be-
cause of this, it is vital for the BMW Group to have targets for re-
ducing its CO2e emissions that are both measurable and science-
based, and to ensure that these targets are firmly integrated into 
its strategy. The BMW
 Group has set itself the target of signifi-
cantly reducing the CO2e emissions of its products over their en-
tire life cycle by 2030.  ↗ Climate change mitigation and adaptation as a 
key part of the corporate strategy 

The BMW Group has defined clear targets to counteract the main 
causes of biodiversity loss. Particular attention is paid to climate 
change  mitigation,  conserving  resources,  improving  water  effi-
ciency and environmental protection, and responsible land use. 

A general framework related to issues like land use is provided in 
an internal company document on the use of renewable raw ma-
terials in product components. 

The use of marine resources was not considered to be a material 
topic for the BMW Group. Further information on the statement 
against the extraction of deep sea minerals can be found in the 
↗ BMW Group Biodiversity Policy.  

Unlike CO2e emissions, there is currently no standardised scale 
for measuring biodiversity loss. This is probably due to the fact 
that these factors are valued and assessed differently in different 
parts of the world. Furthermore, there is no standard method for 
adding up local impacts on biodiversity to arrive at a global im-
pact level. This makes it more difficult to set impact-based and 
quantitative targets that can serve as a starting point for devel-
oping scenarios and assessing them from a business perspec-
tive, implementing actions, and finally measuring their progress. 

The BMW Group believes that reducing our use of primary raw 
materials puts us in a position to have a positive impact by low-
ering our consumption of natural resources and actively contrib-
uting  to  the  preservation  of  biodiversity.  The  circular  economy 
strategy sets out clear principles in this area. In addition, the aim 
is to strengthen the supply chain with regard to secured sources 
of secondary raw materials and to examine the even more ex-
tensive use of secondary raw materials. For further information, 
see ↗ Circular Economy and Resource Use. 

The BMW Group's environmental management system has the 
potential to influence the stability of ecosystems. Water use and 
resource  efficiency  are  key  topics  that  are  addressed 
in 
↗ Responsible  Use  of  Water  Resources  and  the  ↗ Holistic  Environmental 
Management within the BMW Group. 

Measures to protect biodiversity 
Compliance with environmental and social standards across the 
BMW Group’s own operations and supply chain is a core element 
of  the  Group’s  corporate  policy.  The  BMW  Group's  current 
measures are based on the logic of the reduction hierarchy: avoid 
– reduce – compensate. Priority is given to avoiding negative im-
pacts  on  biodiversity  and  ecosystems  wherever  possible.  The 
BMW  Group  considers  compensation  to  mean  restoration  and 
improvement,  often  in  the  form  of  on-site  projects.  Offsetting 
measures are not used for biodiversity management purposes. 

The  BMW  Group  has  implemented  a  multistage  due  diligence 
process in the supply chain to minimise risks and negative im-
pacts.  Internal  guidelines  and  procedures,  such  as  the  BMW 
Group  Supplier  Code  of  Conduct,  address  biodiversity  and  in-
clude  clear  provisions  on  the  handling  of  critical  raw  materials. 
Additional details as well as information on the monitoring pro-
cess  are  available  in  ↗ Social  and  Environmental  Responsibility  in  the 
Supplier Network and ↗ Responsible raw material management. 

* Additional information is available in ↗ Glossary and Explanation of Key Figures. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
139 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

As part of its commitment to deforestation-free procurement, the 
BMW  Group  adheres  to  EU  regulations  and  relevant  industry 
standards. The Company takes a clear stance against deforesta-
tion and forest degradation in its supply chains in the ↗ BMW Group 
Anti-Deforestation  Policy.  This  policy  addresses  the  extent  of  the 
BMW Group’s commitment, the scope of the policy as well as due 
diligence  and  traceability  measures,  complaint  and  monitoring 
mechanisms, and material-specific requirements. Safeguarding 
measures  are  used  in  the  supply  chains  for  relevant  materials 
such as natural rubber, leather, paper, and wood. 

In addition to complying with legal requirements, the BMW Group 
joined  the  Global  Platform  for  Sustainable  Natural  Rubber 
(GPSNR)  multi-stakeholder  initiative  in  2019.  The  aim  of  the 
GPSNR is to prevent deforestation and forest degradation as a 
result of the cultivation of natural rubber. This commitment is set 
out in the BMW Group's High Level Commitment for sustainable 
natural rubber. The BMW Group is also part of the Leather Work-
ing Group (LWG). As a signatory to the “Deforestation Free Call 
to Action for Leather” of the LWG, Textile Exchange and WWF 
the  BMW Group  is  committed  to  sourcing  cowhide  (including 
stamped parts) and components containing cowhide from sup-
ply chains that are free from deforestation and land conversion 
by 2030. 

When selecting and assessing measures to protect biodiversity, 
the BMW Group consults stakeholders such as local communi-
ties and indigenous people. It takes part in initiatives like the Liv-
ing  Rubber  natural  rubber  project  in  Indonesia to  empower  af-
fected communities. In order for the BMW Group’s projects in this 
area  to  be  effective,  it  is  committed  to  actively  involving  local 
communities  in  the  design  and  subsequent  implementation  of 
on-site projects. ↗ Social and Environmental Responsibility in the Supplier 
Network, ↗ Stakeholder Engagement 

Resilience analysis 
In  view  of  the  importance  of  the  protection  of  biodiversity  and 
ecosystems,  the  BMW Group  performs  a  comprehensive  as-
sessment of the resilience of its strategic and business model to 
physical and transitory risks associated with biodiversity. This in-
volves a thorough evaluation of the entire value chain and metic-
ulous analyses.  

The materiality assessment served as a key indicator for identi-
fying potential areas of action related to biodiversity. One of the 
key concerns identified was the extraction of raw materials. Po-
tential  short-term  risks  to  individual  stages  of  the  supply  chain 
are  identified  as  part  of  the  resilience  analysis.  This  approach 
was used to assess the long-term resilience of the BMW Group’s 
strategy and business model to these risks.  

The guidelines of the Taskforce on Nature-Related Financial Dis-
closure (TNFD) provided the basis for the scenarios used for this 
purpose.  Various  scenarios  for  the  year  2035  were  analysed 
with different characteristics related to the decrease in biodiver-
sity and market coherence. The probability of occurrence of these 
scenarios was very low, which is why they were not assessed in 
the resilience analysis. In all other scenarios, the BMW Group’s 
business model was resilient to physical and transitory biodiver-
sity risks. Uncertainties and factors were identified in collabora-
tion with internal and external stakeholders to serve as the basis 
for the development of the scenarios. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
140 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

C I R C U L A R   E C O N O M Y   A N D   R E S O U R C E   U S E  

Material impacts, risks and opportunities 

Waste management of the increasing amounts of hazardous waste at Tier-1-Supplier sides (e.g. batteries) 
and incorrect disposal in the supply chain, including e.g. battery and electronics production, imposes detri-
mental impacts of the environment and society.  

  Type 

  Negative 
Impact 

Circular economy business models and products slow down the usage of natural and limited resources and 
reduce landscape and habitat disruption. 

  Positive  
Impact 

New regulations could require BMW Group to design products which meet additional recyclability require-
ments (e.g. increased dismantling or restricting choice of certain materials) or incorporate recycled materials 
which may be in short supply, leading to increased product costs. 

  Risk 

A product made without circular principles and with high embodied Carbon footprint of materials might lead 
to unfavorable market access, where regulatory requirements exist (for e.g. EU battery and End of Life Vehi-
cle regulations). 

  Risk  

Non-compliance regarding the usage of non-regenerable resources due to increasingly stringent regulations 
could lead to liabilities, penalties, fines, reputational damage or the loss of licenses and permits for BMW 
Group. 

  Risk 

Financial opportunites and competitive advantages through innovation, research and development with re-
spect to resources inflows, including resource use. 

  Opportunity   

Possible policy instruments which favor use of low carbon footprint materials (carbon pricing) or favor recy-
cled content (e.g. US IRA) could make the products eligible for financial incentives. 

  Opportunity   

Stage of the 
value chain    Policies 

  −  Multistage due diligence process to 
uphold environmental and social 
standards in the supply chain (in-
cluding the BMW Group Supplier 
Code of Conduct) 

↗ Social and Environmental Re-
sponsibility in the Supplier Network 

↗ Due Diligence in the supplier net-
work 

  Targets 

  Specific actions 

  −  No targets that focus exclusively 
and thematically on material im-
pacts, risks and opportunities 

  −  Commitment to initiatives 

−  Risk analysis 

−  Overarching targets for the proce-

dures used to perform due diligence 
in the supplier network 

↗ Social and Environmental Re-
sponsibility in the Supplier Network 

−  Sustainability questionnaire (online 

assessment) 

−  On-site assessments of supplier lo-

cations (on-site assessment) 

−  Complaints procedure 

↗ Preventive and remedial 
measures 

↗ Complaints procedure 

−  Analysis of the effectiveness of the 
processes and measures imple-
mented 

↗ Social and Environmental Re-
sponsibility in the Supplier Network 

↗ Due Diligence in the supplier net-
work 

↗ Risk analysis and control mecha-
nisms 

↗ Due Diligence in the supplier net-
work 

↗ Preventive and remedial 
measures 

↗ Complaints procedure 

  −  BMW Group Circular Economy  

  −  None yet 

  −  Increased share of secondary mate-

Strategy 

rials 

−  Improved recyclability 

−  Expansion of repair and repro-

cessing 

−  Investments in innovative recycling 

technologies 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
141 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

Material impacts, risks and opportunities 

  Type 

Stage of the 
value chain    Policies 

The use of non-renewable primary raw materials impacts worldwide depletion of natural resources as well as 
the nature and communities at the mining location. 

  Negative  
Impact 

  −  Process for responsible raw mate-

rial management 

Risk of supply chain shortages and delays in the BMW Group's supply chain in connection with resources in-
flows, including resource use. 

  Risk 

Risk and financial effect due to reputational damage to BMW Group's brand value with respect to controver-
sies in connection with resources inflows, including resource use. 

  Risk 

Opportunities and financial benefits from increasing the supply chain resilience by direct purchasing of raw 
materials. 

  Opportunity   

↗ Responsible raw material man-
agement 

−  Raw materials strategy 

↗ Raw materials security and strat-
egy 

−  BMW Group Supplier Code of Con-

duct 

↗ Due Diligence in the supplier net-
work 

  Targets 

 −  No targets that focus exclusively 
and thematically on material im-
pacts, risks and opportunities 

  Specific actions 

  −  Risk analysis 

−  Certification and traceability of raw 

materials supply chains 

−  Overarching targets for the proce-

dures used to perform due diligence 
in the supplier network 

−  Commitment to initiatives 

−  Implementation of local projects 

↗ Social and Environmental Re-
sponsibility in the Supplier Network 

↗ Social and Environmental Re-
sponsibility in the Supplier Network 

↗ Preventive and remedial 
measures 

↗ Responsible raw material man-
agement 

↗ Complaints procedure 

−  Complaints procedure 

↗ Complaints procedure 

−  Analysis of the effectiveness of the 
processes and measures imple-
mented 

↗ Due Diligence in the supplier net-
work 

−  Objectives for local projects 

↗ Responsible raw material man-
agement 

        Upstream material          Own Operations material          Downstream material 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
142 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

Holistic approach for the transition to a circular economy 
The circular economy is one of the strategic focus areas for the 
BMW Group as an automobile manufacturer. Making greater use 
of  secondary  material  is  therefore  a  pillar  of  ↗ The  BMW  Group 
Strategy. The BMW Group is committed to reducing its use of pri-
mary materials and fostering the circular economy in order to re-
duce CO2e emissions as well as the environmental and social im-
pacts associated with the extraction and processing of primary 
raw  materials.  At  the  same  time,  dependencies  on  critical  pri-
mary raw materials will be reduced. In addition, using secondary 
materials can provide economic advantages and hedge against 
geopolitical  risks  and  regional  restrictions  by  reducing  our  reli-
ance on primary materials. 

BMW Group  vehicles  are  already  manufactured  with  recycled 
and reused materials. Against the backdrop of volatile raw ma-
terials markets and increasing global competition for limited re-
sources, the BMW Group is implementing further measures to in-
crease  the  proportion  of  recycled  materials  that  it  uses  and 
thereby promote the expansion of the circular economy. These 
efforts are supported by guidelines for product, material and sup-
plier  requirements.  The  circular  economy  necessitates  holistic 
thinking – from product development to vehicle recycling. 

For the BMW Group, the responsible use of raw materials is an 
important  part  of  our  daily  activities  as  a  manufacturing  com-
pany.  ↗ Responsible  raw  material  management  The  material  impacts, 
risks and opportunities associated with the use of resources arise 
primarily  from their procurement markets, climate change miti-
gation targets, regulations relating to product or process require-
ments,  and  the  opportunities  related  to  a  reduction  in  the  de-
mand  for  raw  materials.  The  BMW Group  considers  the  use  of 
resources to be closely linked to the preservation of biodiversity, 
particularly when it comes to land use and pollution. ↗ Commitment 
to  protecting  Biodiversity  Information  on  the  supply  chain,  such  as 
due diligence in the supplier network (including waste manage-
ment),  is  available  in  ↗ Social  and  Environmental  Responsibility  in  the 
Supplier Network. 

The BMW Group’s objective is to reduce its dependency on pri-
mary raw materials. The automotive industry uses a wide range 
of raw materials, particularly steel, aluminium and thermoplas-
tics. Electrified vehicles use raw materials like lithium, nickel and 
cobalt in their batteries. The BMW Group has introduced a raw 
materials management system, including an annual risk analysis 
for critical raw materials, for the responsible procurement of raw 
materials. One approach is to reduce the use of critical virgin raw 
materials. ↗ Responsible raw material management The BMW Group’s 
secondary raw materials usage strategy (Secondary First) is of 
vital significance in this context. 

The waste disposal and recycling industry already recycles end-
of-life vehicles, but only together with other products. A large pro-
portion  of  the  recycled  materials  obtained  from  these  products 
are therefore no longer suitable for use in automotive engineer-
ing. This results in downcycling in the material cycle. To reduce 
the automotive industry's dependency on primary raw materials, 
it is therefore vitally important to improve the quality and availa-
bility of recycled materials across the board. The complex chal-
lenges posed by the limited availability of high-quality secondary 
materials  and  the  need  to  make  entire  economies  and  busi-
nesses less dependent on the use of primary raw materials can 
only be met by policy makers working together with industry, raw 
material producers, recyclers and recycling companies. 

The BMW Group’s Strategy in the area of sustainability therefore 
has a particular focus on reducing its consumption of primary raw 
materials.  This  is  mainly  achieved  by  making  increased  use  of 
secondary materials with lower CO2e emissions and the optimi-
sation  of  resource  efficiency.  The  four  strategic  core  elements 
covered  below  have  been  approved  by  the  Board  of  Manage-
ment. 

The core elements relate to the material impacts, risks and op-
portunities  related  to  resource  use  and  the  circular  economy. 
↗ List of material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities. The strategy has a di-
rect  impact  on  suppliers  and  recycling  companies  in  the  up-
stream and downstream supply chain. The underlying material-
ity assessment is updated annually. The progress that has been 
made  with  implementing  the  strategy  is  reviewed  on  a  regular 
basis.  Information  about  how  the  concerns  of  different  stake-
holder groups are taken into account can be found in ↗ Stakeholder 
Engagement. 

Milestones along the road to the circular economy 
The BMW Group has set clear decarbonisation targets for itself 
↗ Climate  change  mitigation  and  adaptation  as  a  key  part  of  the  corporate 
strategy. To achieve this, the BMW Group is reducing CO2e emis-
sions throughout the whole life cycle of its products. Increasing 
the use of secondary materials and implementing new processes 
in the production of primary raw materials, such as CO2e-reduced 
steel production, are helping to achieve the BMW Group’s CO2e 
emission reduction targets in the supply chain as planned. 

Already today, BMW Group vehicles are manufactured using re-
cycled and reused materials to varying degrees. In line with the 
Secondary First approach, we aim to increase the use of second-
ary  materials  going  forward,  starting  with  the  NEUE KLASSE. 
This  approach  will  take  both  technical  feasibility  and  market 
availability into account. The BMW Group is currently working on 
a data model and Group-wide metrics and targets that will make 
the  use  of  resources  even  more  transparent  and  help  to  close 
material  cycles.  The  Group’s  aim  is  to  transparently  map  and 
manage the complex relationships between market availability, 
internal and legal requirements as well as the material flows of 
secondary  materials.  A  corresponding  target  is  currently  being 
defined at the Group level. Expected new legislation, such as the 
proposed regulation on the follow-up legislation to the current EU 
End-of-Life Vehicles Directive, are taken into account alongside 
international standards. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
143 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

The effectiveness of the defined strategies and actions in relation 
to the material impacts, risks and opportunities associated with 
resource use and the circular economy is currently measured and 
tracked on the basis of the contribution to the CO2e reduction tar-
get  for  Scope  3  emissions  (according  to  the  Greenhouse  Gas 
Protocol). The progress made in achieving this target compared 
to the 2019 base year is reported in ↗ Climate change mitigation and 
adaptation as a key part of the corporate strategy. The BMW Group plans 
to  make  the  following  internal  targets  components  of  a  future 
Group-wide target in accordance with ESRS. 

Internal targets for the implementation of a circular economy will 
be set for future models (from the NEUE KLASSE onwards) at 
product level. Based on the four strategic core elements, the fo-
cus is on circular product development in accordance with Design 
for Circularity, in which the use of secondary raw materials (Sec-
ondary First) is implemented as a guiding principle in the devel-
opment process. 

At the component level, the Design for Circularity principle is be-
ing  implemented  by  the  “full  Vehicle  Development”  corporate 
function in an operational concept so that it can be systematically 
applied  in  the  development  of  new  models  (from  the  NEUE 
KLASSE  onwards).  Within  the  framework  of  selected  product, 
material and supplier requirements, we have therefore decided 
to give preference to secondary materials in our future vehicles. 
The  BMW Group  has  standards  that  define  minimum  require-
ments for the secondary material content for materials such as 
steel, aluminium, plastic and copper. Secondary and primary ma-
terials must meet the same high standards of quality, safety and 
reliability. However, the current availability of suitable secondary 
materials is limited due to increasing demand and the high qual-
ity standards that need to be met for automotive applications. 

Key strategic elements for the transition to a circular economy 

Closing the Loop  
Establishing and promoting closed loops for certain 
components and materials in order to keep them as 
a source of secondary  
materials in various material loops 

Design for Circularity  
Consistent alignment of  
product development with regard to  
circularity 

 4 

 3 

Ready for Circularity 
Group-wide empowerment of automotive  
production for the circular economy  
across the entire value chain 

 1 

 2 

Secondary First  
Increase the share of  
secondary material in vehicles,  
thereby reducing the share of primary  
material in the value chain,  
expanding the transparency for vehicle data 

Measures for the responsible use of resources 
For the BMW Group, the responsible use of resources is an es-
sential part of our claim as a manufacturing company. See, for 
instance,  ↗ Responsible  raw  material  management,  ↗ Responsible  Use  of 
Water Resources 

The ↗ Resource inflows including process materials used to manufacture 
automobiles amount to 14,804,645 t. The main materials used 
by the BMW Group in its production processes are steel, alumin-
ium and thermoplastics. 

Water, auxiliaries and operating materials are also relevant pro-
cess materials. Compared to the total volume of materials used, 
biological materials play a minor role in terms of overall quantity. 
Therefore,  0.0%  of  the  total  resource  inflows  are  ↗ sustainably 
sourced  biological  materials.  ↗ Reused  and  recycled  secondary  components, 
products and materials  account  for  37.0%  (5,476,984 t).  Automo-
biles are the main products of the BMW Group for this report. In 
the future, motorcycles will also be included in the reporting pro-
cess. In terms of the total volume of materials used, motorcycles 
represent a negligibly small share. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
144 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

The key actions driving the transition to a circular economy over 
the next years are outlined below. 

The  BMW  Group  has  launched  some  comprehensive  prepara-
tory  initiatives  in  line  with  the  "Ready  for  Circularity"  principle. 
These  will  serve  as  a  foundation  for  achieving  closed  material 
loops within the Company and across its value chain. These ini-
tiatives span research and development, material procurement, 
supplier qualification, production, sales, the product use phase, 
and optimised use of materials and components at the end of a 
product’s  life  cycle.  These  initiatives  focus  on  continuously en-
hancing expertise and implementing measures related to vehicle 
development with the aim of increasing the use of secondary ma-
terials and promoting circular economy-friendly product design. 

To  advance  a  circular  approach  to  product  development,  the 
BMW Group is committed to drawing up global strategies for ma-
terials and components, with a particular focus on key materials 
such as steel, aluminium, battery materials, and thermoplastics. 
The BMW Group is building up its expertise and technical capa-
bilities  in  the  area  of  high-voltage  storage  (HVS)  system  recy-
cling. This includes planning dismantling processes, testing re-
cycling technologies, and integrating these insights into the bat-
tery development process. To maximise resource conservation, 
the BMW Group is drawing up requirements for diagnosing and 
reusing  used  components,  including  high-voltage  storage  sys-
tems. 

Another  key  initiative  involves creating  a  data  model  based  on 
digital twins, which is designed to facilitate material tracking from 
the end of a  product’s life cycle and to ensure that the circular 
economy  is  transparent.  This  data  model  will  also  support  the 
verification of secondary raw materials by suppliers and the ful-
filment of disclosure requirements. We expect this data model to 
facilitate cross-Company data exchange in the medium term. 

Other examples of measures can be found at a vehicle project 
level. The ambitions of the BMW Group are further exemplified in 
the BMW i Vision Circular, which was unveiled at the IAA in 2021. 
This concept vehicle is mostly made from recycled or renewable 
raw materials. Some of the insights gained from this project are 
also  being  incorporated  into  the  NEUE  KLASSE.  Beginning  in 
2025  for  example,  requirements  for  the  proportionate  use  of 
secondary materials for battery cell materials such as cobalt, lith-
ium  and  nickel  will  be  imposed  as  soon  as  the  contract  is 
awarded. The NEUE KLASSE will also contain a higher propor-
tion of secondary materials in other material groups such as steel 
and  aluminium.  Starting  in  2023  with  the  BMW  5  Series,  the 
BMW Group has disclosed the share of secondary materials in its 
new  vehicles  as  part  of  life  cycle  assessments  ↗ Vehicle footprint. 
Since 2024, the MINI Countryman has used cast wheels contain-
ing 70% secondary aluminium, measured using the mass bal-
ance method. 

For the BMW Group, circularity involves a comprehensive strate-
gic approach. The circular economy is considered in the develop-
ment of products, taking into account their recyclability at the end 
of their use phase (Design for Circularity). This approach follows 
key principles that promote the use of secondary materials and 
make vehicles easier to dismantle and recycle. 

With the “Design for Circularity” strategy, resource conservation 
is  addressed  during  the  vehicle  development  phase.  This  en-
sures that circular economy principles are embedded in the prod-
uct development process from the outset. Design for Circularity 
also lays the groundwork for recovering high-quality secondary 
materials at the end of a vehicle’s life. Components are designed 
and developed to include a defined proportion of secondary raw 
materials whenever possible. This approach also focuses on se-
lecting recyclable plastic materials during the development pro-
cess that facilitate a high-quality recycling process at the end of 
the vehicle's life. Improved dismantling concepts make it faster 
and  more  cost-effective  to  disassemble  parts  and  reintegrate 
materials into the parts and materials cycle. 

Used components need to be refurbished and materials recycled 
to fully close the loop. A prime example of this holistic approach 
is the BMW Group’s remanufacturing process, where used parts 
are reconditioned and given a second life. 

The BMW Group has held a 50% stake in the joint venture En-
cory GmbH since 2016. Encory provides comprehensive circular 
economy  solutions,  processes,  and  products  in  the  aftersales 
sector.  The  company  develops  and  implements  logistics  and 
consulting solutions, particularly for the collection, recycling, and 
refurbishment  of  spare  parts.  Whenever  feasible  and  practical, 
defective parts are retrieved in select European markets (in ad-
dition to some other markets, like China) in partnership with the 
joint venture. All suitable parts undergo a refurbishment process 
before being reintroduced into the spare parts cycle as remanu-
factured components. Worn or damaged parts are disassembled 
by refurbishment partners instead of being completely replaced. 
Selected components are then cleaned, mechanically processed 
or replaced as  needed, before  being reassembled into a spare 
part. This process provides high-quality replacement parts that 
offer a number of advantages, such as reducing our use of valu-
able raw materials, cutting emissions and saving energy. reduc-
ing  the  environmental  footprint  of  spare  parts  and  helping  the 
Group to manage resources responsibly. 

The BMW Group operates its own vehicle recycling facility at the 
Recycling and Dismantling Centre in Lohhof near Munich (Ger-
many) to promote best practices in vehicle recycling while con-
tinuously  learning  about  and  implementing  the  latest  recycling 
technologies.  Each  year,  thousands  of  vehicles  are  systemati-
cally  dismantled  and  efficiently  processed  at  this  site.  Most  of 
these  vehicles  are  pre-production  vehicle  models  that  are  no 
longer required for testing purposes. The focus of the entire pro-
cess is on identifying reusable series components and disman-
tling components that are suitable candidates for recycling. The 
disassembly process begins with deactivating restraint systems 
and  draining  fluids.  Functional  components  used  in  mass-pro-
duced models are then passed on to registered retail partners, 
eliminating the need for disposal. During the mechanical disman-
tling of the remaining vehicle, materials like copper, which have 
a significant impact on recyclability, are separated out. Once the 
engine block and transmission have been removed, the rest of 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
145 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

the vehicle structure is pressed and shredded. This method guar-
antees  that  today’s  scrap  becomes  tomorrow’s  raw  materials. 
Insights gained at the Recycling and Dismantling Centre regard-
ing the recyclability of components and materials are already be-
ing integrated into the BMW Group’s product development pro-
cesses. 

The  BMW Group  actively  promotes  recycling  waste,  including 
end-of-life  vehicles,  to  keep  materials  in  circulation  for  longer; 
this  includes  reusing them  to  produce  new  automobiles.  In the 
reporting year, the materials from the vehicles (including motor-
cycles)  taken  back  by  the  Munich  Recycling  and  Dismantling 
Center were 85% in material form1 and 95% including thermal 
processing1  recycled.  This  corresponds  to  a  total  scrapping 
weight for vehicles (including motorcycles) of 7,263 t1. In relation 
to sold automobiles and motorcycles, 85%2 of materials are re-
cycled  as  stipulated  by  legal  requirements  (European  End-of-
Life  Vehicles  Directive  ELV  2000 /53 /EC).  At  least  95%1, 2  of 
sold automobiles can be recycled (including thermal utilisation). 

Together  with  its  national  sales  companies  and  importers,  the 
BMW Group has already organised the return of end-of-life vehi-
cles  for  recycling  at  more  than  2,800  collection  points  in  32 
countries. Research in this area is being stepped up in terms of 
the technology being used, processing efficiency, and costs in or-
der to drive forward improvements in the recycling of end-of-life 
vehicles. The Car2Car project focuses on the recycling of alumin-
ium,  steel,  glass,  copper  and  plastic  from  end-of-life  vehicles. 
This project began in January 2023 and is expected to run until 
December 2025. Together with representatives of the recycling 
industry, raw materials processors, and the scientific community, 
the BMW Group is leading a project to improve the quality of sec-
ondary raw materials obtained from the recycling of end-of-life 
vehicles.  Innovative  dismantling  and  automated  sorting  pro-
cesses will enable recyclable  materials to be extracted to a far 
greater extent than previously. As part of the funding project, the 
BMW Group provided 433 end-of-life vehicles in 2023. In order 
to  cover  a  representative  range,  various  models  out  of  the 
BMW Group’s  own 
from  different 
BMW Group  brands  with  combustion  engines,  plug-in  hybrid 
systems, and all-electric drivetrains. 

inventories  are  used 

In order to increase resource efficiency, avoid  waste, and keep 
materials permanently and efficiently in the loop, the BMW Group 
is  expanding  its  closed  loops  to  include  materials  to  which  the 
Company  has  direct  access.  This  includes  recycled  materials 
from production and the sales organisation. Selected materials 
from production and the sales organisation are returned to se-
lected material suppliers on an ongoing basis. Production resi-
dues generated during production can be on the one hand waste 
that can be processed and fed back into the production cycle as 
well as materials not considered as waste that can be reused di-
rectly without the need for processing. This approach makes  it 
possible to recover recyclable  materials like steel or aluminium 
and  make  them  available  as  raw  materials  for  new  production 
processes. 

The Chinese subsidiary BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. estab-
lished a collection and recycling network for high-voltage storage 
(HVS) systems in 2022 to reduce the amount of primary materi-
als used to produce new HVS systems. Work began on imple-
menting a network of this kind in the European Union in the re-
porting year. Similar networks will be gradually established over 
the next years in the USA and elsewhere. The BMW Group plans 
to use HVS materials as secondary material for the production of 
new HVS cells. 

In addition to actions in its own operations and in the value chain, 
the BMW Group supports innovation within the ecosystem by in-
vesting in start-ups to test out new innovations with the aim of 
bringing them to the mass market. Through BMW i Ventures, the 
BMW Group has invested in a number of pioneering companies 
which focus on resource use and resource efficiency. Cyclic Ma-
terials  is  developing  a  recycling  process  that  reintegrates  rare 
earth elements (REEs) into manufacturing. This innovation helps 
reduce the environmental impact of the global energy transition, 
as REEs play an essential role in the production of electrified ve-
hicles. DeepDrive has created a cost-efficient, resource-efficient 
dual-rotor  electric  motor  for  vehicles.  This  motor  increases  the 
range  of  vehicles,  delivers  high  torque  density,  and  requires 
fewer natural resources. Lilac Solutions is developing an ion-ex-
change  lithium  extraction  technology  with  enhanced  recovery 
rates,  reduced  impurities,  and  lower  acid  consumption.  Man-
grove  Lithium  is  working  on  an  electrochemical  process  for 

producing  high-purity,  battery-grade  lithium  hydroxide  more 
cost-effectively. Our Next Energy is designing batteries with im-
proved range and lower production costs. 

The BMW Group is also investing in research and innovation pro-
jects  to  implement  closed  material  cycles  for  certain  product 
groups. The Circular Republic initiative, formed by the organisa-
tion UnternehmerTUM and the BMW Group in 2023, focuses on 
the transfer of knowledge between the world of science and com-
panies  to  promote  the  circular  economy.  During  the  reporting 
year, the BMW Group continued to promote various formats and 
joint projects. 

The BMW Group also focuses on the reparability of its manufac-
tured products. During the product development phase, the BMW 
Group already places a strong emphasis on ensuring its products 
can be repaired and that the components in its vehicles can be 
disassembled in a non-destructive manner. 

1 Additional disclosure, based on SASB ↗ SASB Index. 
2 The percentages relate to the legal minimum requirements. In practice, higher recycling/recovery 
rates are also possible due to differences between vehicle versions and/or recycling/recovery pro-
cesses. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
146 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

Extensive repair manuals and documentation are made availa-
ble  to  all  specialist  workshops.  The  BMW Group  provides  a 
benchmark catalogue which can be used to categorise damage. 
This provides guidance on whether and how repairs can be con-
ducted, including the tools required. This catalogue can be used 
in combination with a visual inspection or measurement technol-
ogy. A comprehensive vehicle diagnostic system can be used to 
pinpoint the cause of issues in connected electronic and electrical 
components. This makes it possible to get vehicles back on the 
road  by  replacing  individual  parts.  Specialised  spare  parts  for 
motorcycles (such as pistons and connecting rods) are provided 
to simplify complex repairs and significantly reduce repair times. 

Effective waste management 
Waste  management  is  part  of  the  BMW Group’s  holistic  ap-
proach  to  a  circular  economy  and  the  environmental  manage-
ment system at its own production sites. Reducing the amount of 
waste  for  disposal  per  vehicle  produced  is  an  objective  of  the 
BMW Group’s environmental policy. The BMW Group intends to 
reduce the amount of waste for disposal per vehicle produced by 
25% by 2030 compared to the base year 2016. No material im-
pacts, risks or opportunities related to this topic have been iden-
tified for our own operations. The relevant disclosures are there-
fore provided in addition to ESRS on the basis of SASB, ↗ SASB 
Index. 

Waste for disposal per vehicle produced (automotive)1, 2 

recycled  or 

in  production  was 

In the reporting period, a total of 868,084 t of the waste gener-
ated 
(2023: 
922,554 t)1. Of the total volume of waste, 91.7%1 (800,582 t) 
was recycled (material recovery) and 7.7%1 (67,502 t) was ther-
mally recovered. ↗ The amount of waste for disposal per vehicle produced 
fell  significantly  by  –20.8%  year  on  year  to  1.68 kg  (2023: 
2.12 kg).1 

recovered 

Waste generated by production1, 2 

in t 

Total waste 

Waste for recovery 

Share of material recovery (in %) 

Share of thermal recovery (in %) 

3.51

Waste for disposal 

Share of disposed waste (in %) 

2024 

872,976 

868,084 

91.7 

7.7 

4,892 

0.6 

The ease with which products can be repaired also has an impact 
on their ↗ expected durability. According to the BMW Group’s end-
of-life vehicle statistics, the average age of automobiles volun-
tarily returned to recycling centres is around 21.5 years. The in-
dustry average is around 18 years, according to an analysis by 
the German Federal Environment Agency. 

The longevity of the vehicles produced is based on a number of 
pillars, which are described below: 

2.12

1.68

0

2024

2023

2016

In  order  to  maximise  the  useful  life  of  its  products,  the 
BMW Group offers protection against the cost of unexpected re-
pairs, such as the BMW 2+1 warranty for 36 months and other 
warranty  services.  BMW  customers  in  Europe  benefit  from  the 
fact that defects can be fixed under warranty at the original retail 
partner, or any other BMW Group recognised partner in the ser-
vice  network.  In  addition  to  the  statutory  warranty  obligations, 
the BMW Group has given customers worldwide the right to have 
defects rectified in the event of corrosion within twelve years of 
the start of the quality period since 2004. The BMW Group also 
attaches particular importance to ensuring the long-term availa-
bility  of  spare  parts  to  keep  customers’  cars  on  the  road  and 
make sure that they retain their value over a long period of time. 
The BMW Group currently offers several hundred thousand dif-
ferent spare parts for automobiles and motorbikes. In addition, 
Condition Based Services (CBS) uses sensors and special algo-
rithms  to  monitor  the  condition  of  every  BMW  Group  car.  De-
pending  on  the  customer's  driving  profile,  the  service  life  of 
maintenance components can thus be optimally utilised. 

The BMW Group is also committed to the responsible use of re-
sources within the supply chain. Established processes and ac-
tions  help  to  minimise  the  material  impacts  identified  here.  All 
relevant policies, actions and targets for mitigating and manag-
ing impacts identified as material in the upstream value chain are 
identified as part of the due diligence process for upholding en-
vironmental  and  social  standards  within  the  supplier  network. 
↗ Social and Environmental Responsibility in the Supplier Network 

1 Additional disclosure, based on SASB ↗ SASB Index. 
2 Additional information is available in ↗ Glossary and Explanation of Key Figures. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
147 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

E U   T A X O N O M Y  

Within  the  framework  of  the  implementation  of  the  European 
Green Deal and the Action Plan “Financing Sustainable Growth”, 
the EU Taxonomy is a cornerstone of the EU’s aspiration to be-
come climate neutral by 2050. It aims to channel investment to-
wards activities that are required to achieve climate neutrality. 

The  EU  Taxonomy  is  a  classification  system  that  defines  eco-
nomic activities as environmentally sustainable based on fulfil-
ment of predetermined technical assessment criteria. 

An  economic  activity  can  only  be  classified  as  sustainable  if  it 
substantially contributes to one of the following six environmen-
tal objectives: 

I.  Climate change mitigation 
II.  Climate change adaptation 
III.  Sustainable  use  and  protection  of  water  and  marine  re-

sources 

IV.  Transition to a circular economy 
V.  Pollution prevention and control 
VI.  Protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems 

Moreover, no other environmental objective may be significantly 
harmed  during  performance  of  the  activity  and  the  company 
must  observe  minimum  safeguards,  among  them  compliance 
with  human  rights.  Since  the  2022  reporting  year,  the 
BMW Group has reported on the Taxonomy-eligible and Taxon-
omy-aligned proportion of its revenues, capital expenditure and 
operating expenditure for Environmental Objectives I and II.1 Fol-
lowing the publication of the Delegated Regulation 2023/2486, 
the  BMW  Group  reported  the  proportion  of  Taxonomy-eligible 
revenue for Environmental Objective IV (Transition to a Circular 
Economy) for the first time in the previous year. No economic ac-
tivities of relevance for the BMW Group have been defined for the 
other environmental objectives. The BMW Group will be required 
to report on Taxonomy alignment for all relevant environmental 
objectives from reporting year 2024 onwards. 

Our holistic understanding of sustainability 
The BMW Group supports the overarching goal of the EU Tax-
onomy to promote the private financing of environmentally sus-
tainable economic activities in order to make Europe the world’s 
first climate-neutral continent by 2050. The BMW Group aims to 
achieve net zero carbon emissions across the entire value chain2 
(Scope 1, 2 and 3) by no later than 2050. ↗ Transition plan to achieve 
Net Zero emissions by 2050 

The BMW Group developed a holistic approach for this purpose 
that looks at the CO2e emissions of vehicles over their entire life 
cycle.  The  CO2e  targets  are  integrated  into  the  BMW  Group’s 
control system. 

Due to the continuously growing proportion of all-electric vehicles 
in the BMW Group’s range, emissions in the supply chain will in-
crease in the short to medium term. The main reason for this is 
the  higher  product  carbon  footprint  of  the  high-voltage  battery 
compared to conventional drivetrain concepts. In the manufac-
turing  process,  the  BMW Group  therefore  relies  on  electricity 
from  renewable  sources3,  recycled  materials  and  technical 
measures that have been developed to limit the increase in CO2e 
in the supply chain. 

However,  for  the  economic  activities  that  are  relevant  to  the 
BMW Group, the EU Taxonomy focuses exclusively on reducing 
carbon emissions during the use phase that are attributable to 
low-emission (until 2025) and emission-free drivetrain systems. 
Indirect  carbon  emissions,  for  instance  those  produced  when 
generating charging current or during the energy-intensive pro-
duction  of  high-voltage  batteries,  are  not taken  into  account in 
the context of these economic activities. Moreover, the EU Tax-
onomy only reflects the impact of decarbonisation measures on 
in-house production to the extent that they serve to manufacture 
Taxonomy-aligned products or to the extent that they are explic-
itly included in the description of an activity. Increasing the energy 
efficiency of paint-shop processes, for example, reduces carbon 
emissions in in-house production, even if a purely combustion-
engine vehicle is painted. In light of the BMW Group’s previously 
defined economic activities, its sustainability efforts in this regard 
are not, or are only partially, taken into account in the EU Taxon-
omy. ↗ Climate Change Mitigation and Adaption 

1 The definition of the three performance indicators and their differentiation from IFRS can be 

found in the glossary ↗ Glossary and Explanation of Key Figures. 

2 In this context the entire value chain is to be understood as Scope 1 and 2 as well as the Scope 3 
categories (categories 1, 4 and 11 for the Automotive Segment) applicable to the BMW Group in 
accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 

3 See ↗ Glossary for definition of electricity from renewable sources. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
148 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

Explanatory comments on reporting procedures 
An economic activity is to be seen as Taxonomy-eligible if it is 
described in the Delegated Acts relating to one of the six envi-
ronmental objectives, regardless of whether that economic activ-
ity meets the technical screening criteria stipulated in those Del-
egated Acts. Following an analysis, the BMW Group’s business 
activities can be summarised under the following economic ac-
tivities*: 

Overview of economic activities 

Economic activities 

 Code(s) 

  Description 

  Environmental objectives 

  Reporting 2024 

  Comments 

Manufacture of low carbon technol-
ogies for transport 

 CCM 3.3, CCA 3.3   

The production of automobiles and motorcycles, excluding 
- the sale of parts and components, such as after-sales business excluding the provi-
sion of repair services, 
- the supply of components for production to third parties 

I „Climate change mitigation“ 
II „Climate change adaptation“ 

  Taxonomy alignment 

Transport by motorbikes, passen-
ger cars and light commercial vehi-
cles 

 CCM 6.5, CCA 6.5   

The acquisition, financing, lease and operation of automobiles and motorcycles, ex-
cluding banking and insurance services performed by our non-automotive Financial 
Services segment 

I „Climate change mitigation“ 
II „Climate change adaptation“ 

  Taxonomy alignment 

Contribution to Environmental objec-
tives II is subsumed under Environ-
mental objective I 

Contribution to Environmental objec-
tives II is subsumed under Environ-
mental objective I 

Sale of second-hand goods 

 CE 5.4 

Sale of used third-party brand cars purchased by the BMW Group from external par-
ties and resold to external third parties at the end of the lease agreement 

IV „Transition to a circular economy“ 

  Taxonomy alignment 

In  contrast  to  the  previous  year,  economic  activity  CE  5.4  only 
includes the sale of used third-party brand automobiles that are 
purchased  by  the  BMW Group  from  third  parties  and  resold  to 
external third parties at the end of the lease agreement. The sale 
of lease returns from BMW Group brands, on the other hand, is 
reported under CCM 6.5. While all lease and financing activities 
are  still  reported  under  CCM  6.5  in  their  entirety,  this  change 
draws a clear distinction between the remarketing of BMW Group 
brand vehicles on the one hand (CCM 6.5) and the sale or trade 
of second-hand automobiles on the other (CE 5.4). 

Explanatory comments on reporting procedures 

Taxonomy 
eligibility 

+ 

Substantial 
Contribution 

+ 

Do No 
Significant 
Harm (DNSH) 

+ 

Minimum 
Safeguards 

= 

Economic 
activity is 
Taxonomy-aligned 

Economic activities 
are described in one of the 
Delegated Acts 

Substantial contribution 
to at least 
one of the environmental 
objectives 

Economic activity does 
not cause significant 
harm to other environmental 
objectives 

Company establishes 
minimum safeguard 
procedures for human 
rights, bribery and 
corruption, taxation and 
fair competition 

* The additional economic activities specified in Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1214 of 9 March 
2022 (in particular with regard to nuclear energy and gaseous fossil fuels) are not relevant to the 
BMW Group. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
149 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

In order to determine the Taxonomy alignment of economic ac-
tivities CCM 3.3, CCM 6.5 and CE 5.4 in the reporting year, they 
must  be  reviewed  against  the  technical  screening  criteria  rele-
vant to them: 

5.  Substantial contribution to fulfilment of the environmental 
objectives ”Climate change mitigation” and ”Climate 
change adaptation” based on the specific carbon emis-
sions (CO2e) for the respective vehicles for economic ac-
tivities CCM 3.3 and CCM 6.5 

6.  Substantial contribution to the fulfilment of the environ-

mental objective ”Transition to a circular economy” based 
on the specific requirements for the vehicles under con-
sideration (“Substantial contribution”) for economic activ-
ity CE 5.4 

7.  Do no significant harm (“DNSH”) to other environmental 

objectives based on the specific requirements for each 
relevant economic activity 

It  must  also  be  ensured  that  the  BMW  Group  has  established 
minimum safeguards. 

Substantial contribution 
The  BMW  Group  has  reviewed  its  contribution  to  the  environ-
mental objectives “Climate change mitigation”, “Climate change 
adaptation” and “Transition to a circular economy” for the report-
ing year. Economic activity CCM 3.3 and economic activity CCM 
6.5 both make a substantial contribution to Environmental Ob-
jective I “Climate change mitigation” due to the manufacture as 
well  as  financing  and  leasing  of  low-emission  (PHEVs  <50g 
CO2/km WLTP by 2025) and zero-emissions vehicles (BEVs and 
motorcycles  with  0g  CO2/km).  Economic  activity  CCM  3.3  and 
economic activity CCM 6.5 as undertaken by the BMW Group are 
also described under Environmental Objective II “Climate change 
adaptation”. There are, however, no identifiable values that can 
be  separated  from  Environmental  Objective  I  “Climate  change 
mitigation”. 

Environmental objectives of EU Taxonomy 

Climate change mitigation 

 I 

Protection and restoration 
of biodiversity 
and ecosystems 

 VI 

Climate change 
adaptation 

 II 

 V 

Pollution prevention 
and control 

I III 

Sustainable use 
and protection of water 
and marine resources 

 IV 

Transition to a 
circular economy 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
150 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

In  order  to  identify  the  specific carbon  emissions  of  PHEV that 
are  not  determined  in  line  with  Regulation  (EU)  2019/631 
(among others USA and China), assumptions were made based 
on  the  worst-case  value  for  that  vehicle  model,  even  though 
these emissions may have been lower in reality.  

Economic activity CE 5.4 makes a substantial contribution to the 
environmental objective “Transition to a circular economy”. Only 
trading with used third-party brand automobiles will be reported 
under CE 5.4 from the 2024 reporting year onwards. 

Do no significant harm 
It is not possible to fully verify compliance with the DNSH criteria 
for economic activity CE 5.4 due to a lack of data on tyre catego-
ries and WLTP emissions values for third-party brands. As a re-
sult, no Taxonomy-aligned share can be reported for economic 
activity CE 5.4. For this reason, economic activity CE 5.4 is not 
included in the following analysis of the DNSH criteria. 

Compliance with the DNSH criteria was reviewed in the reporting 
year  for  the  five  additional  environmental  objectives,  based  in 
each case on the specific requirements specifically for economic 
activity  CCM  3.3  “Manufacture  of  low  carbon  technologies  for 
transport” and economic activity CCM 6.5 “Transport by motor-
bikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles”. 

The  vehicle  portfolio  for  economic  activity  CCM  6.5  includes 
BMW Group  vehicles  and  vehicles  from  other  manufacturers 
(third-party products). As no data are available regarding the rel-
evant attributes of these third-party products, it is not currently 
possible to make a comprehensive assessment in relation to the 
DNSH criteria. For this reason, these third-party products are not 
currently reported as Taxonomy-aligned. 

Climate change adaptation 

A robust climate risk and vulnerability assessment is required for 
both economic activity CCM 3.3 and economic activity CCM 6.5 
to determine that they do not cause significant harm to Environ-
mental Objective II. To satisfy this requirement, the physical cli-
mate risks at all major BMW Group production sites are consid-
ered and an assessment of any damage that may occur as a re-
sult of climate change is carried out. We use long-term climate 
scenarios* running up to 2035 and 2050 for this purpose. More-
over,  we  consider  potential  natural  hazards  at  all  of  our  direct 
supplier  locations  in  order  to  adequately  take  supply  risks  into 
account when selecting and evaluating suppliers. Adaptive solu-
tions to mitigate risks are drawn up and implemented as appro-
priate based on the results of this risk analysis and in consulta-
tion with site representatives. Additional information is available 
in  ↗ Procedure  and  methodological  basis  for  climate-related  risks  and 
opportunities,  ↗ Physical  climate  risks,  ↗ Transitory  climate  risks  and 
opportunities. 

The DNSH requirements for Environmental Objective II are ful-
filled for economic activities CCM 3.3 and CCM 6.5. 

Sustainable use and protection of 
water and marine resources and 
protection and restoration of 
biodiversity and ecosystems 

In order to establish that no significant harm is caused to Envi-
ronmental Objectives III and VI, it is necessary to perform a com-
prehensive risk analysis that looks at the preservation and pro-
tection  of  environmental,  water  and  marine  resources  for  eco-
nomic activity CCM 3.3 (in both cases, not relevant for economic 
activity CCM 6.5). 

In this context, the BMW Group carries out environmental impact 
assessments in accordance with Directive 2011/92/EU  during 
the construction of new and expansion of existing sites within the 
EU that also take account of water and biodiversity. At locations 
outside the EU, the BMW Group carries out an environmental im-
pact assessment based on EU requirements. Moreover, a certi-
fied environmental management system pursuant to ISO 14001 
has been implemented at all BMW Group production sites and all 
local  statutory  requirements  are  observed.  ↗ Holistic environmental 
Management within the BMW Group 

The DNSH requirements for Environmental Objectives III and VI 
are fulfilled for economic activity CCM 3.3. 

Transition to a circular economy 

The requirements for both economic activities of the BMW Group 
to do no significant harm to Environmental Objective IV differ for 
each stage of the value chain. We fulfil these requirements during 
the  manufacturing  process  for  BMW Group  vehicles  (economic 
activity CCM 3.3) by, for example, using secondary raw materials 
in  our  products,  designing  products  to  facilitate  their  recycling, 
managing waste at our production sites in a way that prioritises 
recycling  over  disposal,  and  systematically  registering  sub-
stances of concern along the entire supply chain. With regard to 
the utilisation phase and recycling of BMW Group vehicles (eco-
nomic activity CCM 6.5), we have set up appropriate processes 
to comply with recycling requirements and established measures 
for managing waste during maintenance and at the end of the 
life cycle. All these criteria also form part of our comprehensive 
approach to the ↗ Circular Economy and Resource Use. 

The DNSH requirements for Environmental Objective IV are ful-
filled for economic activities CCM 3.3 and CCM 6.5. 

* SSP1-1.9, SSP2-4.5, SSP5-8.5. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
151 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

Pollution prevention and 
control 

The  requirements  to  do  no  significant  harm  to  Environmental 
Objective V differ considerably for economic activity CCM 3.3 and 
economic activity CCM 6.5. 

With regard to economic activity CCM 3.3, the BMW Group has 
established corresponding processes which aim to monitor and 
ensure legal compliance with any prohibitions and limits relating 
to the use of chemical substances at the vehicle level. With regard 
to the extended requirements for hazardous substances that ful-
fil the criteria of any of the classes or categories specified in Arti-
cle 57 of the REACH Regulation (EC) 1907/2006 in accordance 
with the CLP Regulation (EC) 1272/2008 and which constitute 
at least 0.1% of the mass of the final product, the BMW Group 
has initialised a process to assess the extent to which these sub-
stances can be replaced with suitable alternatives.  

Firstly, the points of the supply chain at which these substances 
are used were identified and assessed in a further step against 
the background of the state of the art and taking business, regu-
latory  and  technical  concerns  into  account.  If  the  use  of  these 
hazardous substances cannot be avoided, the BMW Group uses 
them under controlled conditions in accordance with hazardous 
material regulations. However, it is not possible to meet all crite-
ria to do no significant harm to Environmental Objective V in the 
case of economic activity CCM 6.5. Current PHEV models with air 
pollutant  emissions  under  50
g  CO2/km  WLTP  offered  by  the 
BMW Group  and  other  manufacturers  may  make  a  substantial 
contribution as defined by the EU Taxonomy. However, manu-
facturer specifications for air  pollutant emissions in real driving 
conditions (real driving emissions [RDE]) can only be reduced for 
selected models to 80% of the limit as required by the EU Tax-
onomy with reference to Table 2 in the Annex to the Clean Vehi-
cles Directive, due to potentially extreme driving situations. The 
vast majority of PHEVs in the vehicle portfolio for economic ac-
tivity  CCM  6.5  must  therefore  be  considered  not  Taxonomy-
aligned. 

For the remaining PHEV and BEV models in the BMW Group’s 
vehicle portfolio, further deductions have to be made for individ-
ual models in the context of economic activity CCM 6.5 in light of 
the requirements for rolling resistance coefficients for tyres and 
in particular the external rolling noise of tyres. Owing to the lim-
ited availability of data, the eligibility of the models concerned is 
calculated in a simplified manner based on the tyres approved 
for these models, weighted by their purchase volumes and take 
rates. 

The DNSH requirements for Environmental Objective V are ful-
filled for economic activity CCM 3.3; however, not all are fulfilled 
for economic activity CCM 6.5, due to the RDE and tyre label re-
quirements described. 

Minimum safeguards 
Additionally, companies that carry out economic activities as de-
fined  by  the  EU  Taxonomy  are  required  to  establish  minimum 
safeguards. They require the implementation of processes to en-
sure compliance with due diligence obligations both within an or-
ganisation and in stages of the upstream and downstream value 
chain that have been outsourced. Specifically, this refers to com-
pliance with human rights and regulations on bribery, corruption, 
taxation and fair  competition. In its  ↗ Policy statement on respect for 
human rights and corresponding environmental standards, the BMW Group 
has, among other things, committed to compliance with the fol-
lowing  standards  for  minimum  safeguards  as  defined  in  Arti-
cle 18 of the Taxonomy Regulation: Organization for Economic 
Cooperation  and  Development  (OECD)  Guidelines  for  Multina-
tional  Enterprises,  the  UN  Guiding  Principles  on  Business  and 
Human Rights and the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, 
which  we  signed  back  in  2001.  ↗ Purchasing  and  Supplier  Network, 
↗ Compliance 

The minimum safeguard requirements are met. 

EU Taxonomy performance indicators 
Please refer to the remarks in the glossary for the definition and 
calculation of the Taxonomy-specific performance indicators rev-
enues, capital expenditure and operating expenditure and their 
differentiation from IFRS. ↗ Glossary and Explanation of Key Figures 

The proportion of total revenues, capital expenditure and oper-
ating expenditure relating to eligible and non-eligible economic 
activities are shown in each case as an aggregate percentage for 
the  BMW Group.  All  Taxonomy-eligible  revenues,  capital  ex-
penditure and operating expenditure for economic activities CCM 
3.3 and CCM 6.5 are disclosed under Environmental Objective I 
“Climate change mitigation”, given that there are no identifiable 
values  for  Environmental  Objective  II  “climate  change  adapta-
tion” that can be separated from Environmental Objective I “Cli-
mate change mitigation”. This approach avoids double counting 
of revenues, capital expenditure and operating expenditure when 
determining the KPI in the numerator across multiple economic 
activities. 

In the case of capital expenditure and operating expenditure, all 
Taxonomy-eligible expenditure is allocated to the two economic 
activities CCM 3.3 and CCM 6.5. There is no independent Tax-
onomy-eligible capital expenditure and operating expenditure for 
economic activity CE 5.4.  

In most cases, values from financial data were allocated directly 
to  the  economic  activities  for  all  three  performance  indicators, 
based for example on the drivetrain or the vehicle model. In the 
remaining  cases,  an  allocation  mechanism  was  used  for  each 
economic  activity  and  each  performance  indicator.  For  Taxon-
omy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure for eco-
nomic activity CCM 3.3, the allocator is based on long-term Tax-
onomy-aligned  revenues  generated  from  the  Automotive  and 
Motorcycles segments: 

—  Allocator for economic activity CCM 3.3: Proportion (BEV + 
PHEV  [<50g  CO2])  x  Automotive  segment  revenues  
(2025–2030)* 

* PHEV volumes are only taken into account in the allocator until reporting year 2025 inclusive. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
152 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

The allocator is based on detailed long-term corporate planning 
for  the  next  six  years,  as  approved  each  year  by  the  Board  of 
Management  and  Supervisory  Board.  This  formula  is  used  for 
capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment (including 
right-of-use assets from lessee relationships), intangible assets 
and expenditure on research and development for economic ac-
tivity  CCM  3.3.  For  operating  expenditure,  the  allocator  is  only 
applied to non-capitalised development costs. 

For  other  operating  expenditure  (non-capitalised  right-of-use 
assets  (lessee),  maintenance/repair  expenses)  relating  to  eco-
nomic activity CCM 3.3, the formula is based on the Taxonomy-
aligned revenues generated from the Automotive and Motorcy-
cles segments in the reporting period. 

For Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned capital expendi-
ture for economic activity CCM 6.5, the allocator is based on the 
Taxonomy-aligned  financing  volume  for  new  customers  in  the 
current financial year: 

—  Allocator  for  economic  activity  CCM  6.5:  DNSH  alignment 
factor  x  BEV  proportion  x  financing  volume  attributable  to 
new customer contracts (2024) 

It refers to capital expenditure on leased products. 

Further increase in Taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure 
and operating expenditure in the 2024 reporting year 
The following overview tables summarise the performance indi-
cators revenues, capital expenditure and operating expenditure 
from Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned economic activ-
ities  of  the  BMW Group.  Regardless  of  the  Taxonomy  require-
ments,  the  BMW Group  regularly  and  comprehensively  ad-
dresses risks arising from climate change and their potential im-
pact on its locations and supply chains. ↗ Climate change adaptation, 
↗ Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation 

—  BMW Group perspective 

Both performance indicators - capital expenditure and oper-
ating  expenditure  -  continued  to  grow  year  on  year  at  the 
BMW Group level. This reflects the BMW Group’s increased 
investment in sustainable products and plant infrastructure 
as  part  of  the  ongoing  electrification  process.  The  Taxon-
omy-aligned proportion of capital expenditure was 29.1%, 
which  was  3.1%  higher  than  in  2023  (€ 10,687 million). 
Taxonomy-aligned  capital  expenditure  as  a  proportion  of 
the BMW Group’s total capital expenditure is impacted sig-
nificantly  by  additions  related  to  leased  products.  Conse-
quently,  an  examination  of  the  proportion  of  Taxonomy-
aligned capital expenditure at the BMW Group level does not 
reflect the huge investment in sustainable economic activi-
ties and products. Operating expenditure incurred for Tax-
onomy-aligned 
to 
€ 2,146 million, corresponding to over 32% of Taxonomy-
eligible operating expenditure (2023: 31%). 

amounted 

economic 

activities 

The Taxonomy-aligned proportion of the BMW Group’s rev-
enues fell slightly in 2024. They amounted to € 20,819 mil-
lion  (2023:  € 23,690 million),  corresponding  to  14.6%  of 
total Group revenues and a decrease on the previous year 
of about half a percentage point. This was mainly driven by 
changes  in  the  pricing  structure  of  the  Taxonomy-aligned 
BEV portfolio and negative elimination effects between the 
Automotive  segment  and  the  Financial  Services  segment. 
↗ Voluntary  additional  information  on  the  Taxonomy-aligned  share  per 
economic activity 

—  Economic activity CCM 3.3, “Manufacture of low-carbon 

technologies for transport” 
The Taxonomy-aligned share of revenues generated by the 
Automotive  and  Motorcycles  segments  corresponded  to 
13.4%  (economic  activity  CCM  3.3  “Manufacture  of  low-
carbon technologies for transport”) of total Group revenues 
(2023: 15.0%). As a percentage of third-party revenues of 
the two segments, the Taxonomy-aligned share equaled to 
20.3% (2023: 22.1%). ↗ Course of Business and Segments 

The Taxonomy-aligned proportion of capital expenditure fell 
slightly by just under 2 percentage points to 20.9% (2023: 

22.7%). This is due to the disproportionate increase in total 
capital expenditure relative to capital expenditure in the Au-
tomotive  and  Motorcycles  segments.  Looking  only  at  the 
Taxonomy-aligned additions to intangible assets and prop-
erty,  plant  and  equipment  in  the  context  of  additions  rec-
orded by the Automotive and Motorcycles segments, how-
ever, the proportion of Taxonomy-aligned capital expendi-
ture  went  up  by  a  percentage  point 
to  61.5%.  
↗ Voluntary  additional  information  on  the  Taxonomy-aligned  share  per 
economic activity 

—  Economic activity CCM 6.5, “Transport by motorbikes, 

passenger cars and light commercial vehicles” 
The Taxonomy-aligned shares for the three performance in-
dicators are at a low single-digit level for the Financial Ser-
vices segment, but are on an upwards trajectory. This is due 
to the fact that there is a time lag before the effects of the 
vehicle fleet electrification ramp-up impact the financing and 
leasing  lines  of  business.  A  further  reason  is  the  varied, 
stricter DNSH requirements for economic activity CCM 6.5, 
in  particular  those  relating  to  Environmental  Objective  V 
“Pollution prevention and control”, which lead to the exclu-
sion  of  almost  all  PHEV  and  a  significant  restriction  in the 
recognition of BEV (for details see section  ↗ Do no significant 
harm). Third-party brands are not included in the vehicle port-
folio in the reporting on Taxonomy alignment for economic 
activity CCM 6.5. A lack of available data regarding the tyre 
categories or WLTP emission values of third-party products 
makes  it  impossible  to  review  compliance  with  the  DNSH 
criteria in full. 

The Taxonomy-aligned proportion of capital expenditure in 
the Financial Services segment rose by almost 250% on the 
previous year to 8.2% (€ 3,006 million). Based on total cap-
ital expenditure in the Financial Services segment, the Tax-
onomy-aligned  proportion  more  than  doubled  to  12.4%. 
Taxonomy-aligned revenues increased more than four-fold 
year on year to € 1,742 million. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
153 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

—  Economic activity CE 5.4, “Sale of second-hand goods” 
As  stipulated  by  Delegated  Regulation  2023/2486,  the 
BMW Group is reporting on the Taxonomy-aligned propor-
tion  of  revenues  for  economic  activity  CE  5.4  for  the  first 
time. This economic activity includes revenues from the sale 
of used third-party brand passenger cars after their intended 
use by clients in the Financial Services segment, but does 
not include revenues from the sale of used third-party brand 
motorcycles. Around 1.2% of total revenues are Taxonomy-
eligible in reporting year 2024 (20231: 1.1%). The Taxon-
omy-aligned share is zero due to a lack of data concerning 
the DNSH criteria. 

As  the  overview  tables  from  Delegated  Regulation  (EU) 
2023/2486  do  not  provide  a  detailed  picture  of 
the 
BMW Group’s business model per economic activity, the follow-
ing  table  provides  detailed  information  about  the  three  perfor-
mance  indicators  as  regards  Taxonomy  alignment,  reported 
separately for economic activities CCM 3.3, CCM 6.5 and CCM 
5.4. 

Voluntary additional information on the Taxonomy-aligned share per economic activity 

Revenues2 

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport (CCM 3.3) 

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial 
vehicles (CCM 6.5) 

Sale of second-hand goods (CE 5.4) 

Taxonomy-non-eligible revenues 

Total revenues BMW Group 

Capital expenditure3 

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport (CCM 3.3) 

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial 
vehicles (CCM 6.5) 

Taxonomy-non-eligible capital expenditure 

Total CapEx BMW Group 

Operating expediture4 

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport (CCM 3.3) 

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial 
vehicles (CCM 6.5) 

Total OpEx BMW Group3 

2024 
in € million 

by activity 

94,079 

32,116 

1,775 

14,409 

142,379 

by activity 

12,480 

24,198 

87 

36,765 

2024 
in € million 

of which 
Taxonomy-aligned 

2024 
in % 

2023⁵ 
in % 

Proportion 

Proportion 

19,077 

1,742 

n/a 

n/a 

20,819 

20.3 

5.4 

n/a 

n/a 

14.6 

22.1 

1.1 

n/a 

n/a 

15.2 

of which 
Taxonomy-aligned 

Proportion 

Proportion 

7,680 

3,006 

n/a 

10,687 

61.5 

12.4 

n/a 

29.1 

60.4 

5.4 

n/a 

26.0 

by activity 

of which 
Taxonomy-aligned 

Proportion 

Proportion 

6,331 

305 

6,636 

2,125 

21 

2,146 

33.6 

6.9 

32.3 

32.2 

4.2 

31.1 

1 Prior-year figures for revenues related to CE 5.4 are adjusted due to a change in the calculation 

basis. 

2 Taxonomy-aligned share calculated with denominator as third-party revenue from Taxonomy-

eligible values of the respective economic activity. 

3 Taxonomy-aligned share calculated with the Taxonomy-eligible value of the respective economic 

activity as denominator. See ↗ note [20] to the Group Financial Statements for details on the 
BMW Group’s capital expenditure. 

4 Only includes the operating expenditure defined in the EU Taxonomy. 
5 Prior-year figures for revenues related to CE 5.4 and CCM 6.5 adjusted due to change in the cal-

culation basis.

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
154 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

Revenues for economy activity CCM 3.3 include small amounts 
from  Taxonomy-aligned  activities  related  to  the  BMW Group’s 
company  car  programme.  These  company  cars  are  generally 
transferred  to  the  BMW Group’s  external  sales  programme 
within twelve months after a short period of in-house use. 

Contextual KPI information related to Taxonomy-aligned economic activities 

in € million 

Revenues 

Sales of products, related goods and revenue of service contracts 

Revenues related to financial services 

Total 

Capital expenditure 

Economic activity CCM 3.3 

Property, plant and equipment* 

Development costs 

Leased products 

Total 

Economic activity CCM 6.5 

Property, plant and equipment* 

Development costs 

Leased products 

Total 

Total 

Operating expenditure 

Economic activity CCM 3.3 

Development costs – not capitalised 

Right-of-use assets (lessee) – not capitalised 

Maintenance/repair expenses 

Total 

Economic activity CCM 6.5 

Development costs – not capitalised 

Right-of-use assets (lessee) – not capitalised 

Maintenance/repair expenses 

Total 

Total 

2024 

2023 

19,077 

1,742 

20,819 

5,668 

2,012 

– 

7,680 

2 

– 

3,005 

3,006 

10,687 

23,340 

350 

23,690 

5,391 

1,516 

– 

6,907 

1 

– 

1,018 

1,018 

7,926 

1,915 

1,843 

18 

192 

17 

191 

2,125 

2,051 

18 

– 

3 

21 

9 

– 

2 

11 

2,146 

2,062 

* Including intangible assets and right-of-use assets from lessee relationships. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
155 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

CapEx plan for Environmental Objective I “Climate change 
mitigation” 
A CapEx plan is required to be drawn up for capital expenditure 
and operating expenditure that expand Taxonomy-aligned eco-
nomic  activities  or  allow  Taxonomy-eligible  economic  activities 
to become Taxonomy-aligned. This plan has been approved by 
the Board of Management of BMW AG and covers a seven-year 
period (2024–2030). The CapEx plan covers capital expenditure 
and  operating  expenditure  for  the  reporting  year  and  planned 
capital expenditure and operating expenditure (only non-capital-
ised development costs) for 2024–2030 for economic activities 
CCM 3.3 and CCM 6.5. The selected future period corresponds 
to the detailed long-term corporate planning of the BMW Group 

and contains various investment measures with different imple-
mentation times (e.g. electrification of the vehicle fleet, model re-
visions,  structural  investments  in  production  sites).  The  CapEx 
plan  earmarks  € 73,451 million  for  economic  activity  CCM  3.3 
and  € 25,324 million  for  economic  activity  CCM  6.5.  The  in-
crease in Taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure and operating 
expenditure as compared to the previous year’s plan can largely 
be attributed to generally higher capital expenditure and operat-
ing expenditure associated with electrification until the end of the 
decade. 

CapEx plan for expansion of or transformation into Taxonomy-aligned economic activities 

in € million 

Economic activities 

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport 

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles 

Total 

2024 

2023 

Code(s) 

2024–2030 

2023–2029 

CCM 3.3 

CCM 6.5 

73,451 

25,324 

98,775 

68,473 

24,847 

93,320 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
156 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

Revenues 

Financial year 2024 

2024 

Substantial contribution criteria 

DNSH criteria 
("Does not significantly harm") 

  2023 

3
s
e
u
n
e
v
e
R

f
o
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
  P

n
o
i
t
a
g
i
t
i

m
e
g
n
a
h
c
e
t
a
m

n
o
i
t
p
a
d
a
e
g
n
a
h
c
e
t
a
m

i
l

  C

i
l

  C

r
e
t
a
  W

1
)
s
(
e
d
o
C

s
e
u
n
e
v
e
  R

n
o
i
t
u

l
l

o
  P

n
o
i
t
a
g
i
t
i

m
e
g
n
a
h
c
e
t
a
m

n
o
i
t
p
a
d
a
e
g
n
a
h
c
e
t
a
m

i
l

 C

i
l

 C

r
e
t
a
 W

y
m
o
n
o
c
e
r
a
u
c
r
i
  C

l

y
t
i

s
r
e
v
d
o
  B

i

i

n
o
i
t
u

l
l

o
 P

y
m
o
n
o
x
a
T

f
o
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
 P

s
d
r
a
u
g
e
f
a
s
m
u
m
n
 M

i

i

y
m
o
n
o
c
e
r
a
u
c
r
i
 C

l

y
t
i

s
r
e
v
d
o
 B

i

i

)
2
A

.

l

(
e
b
g

i

i
l

e
r
o
)
1
A

.

(
d
e
n
g

i
l

a

y
t
i
v

i
t
c
a

l

a
n
o
i
t
i

s
n
a
r
t
y
r
o
g
e
t
a
 C

y
t
i
v
i
t
c
a
g
n

i
l

b
a
n
e
y
r
o
g
e
t
a
 C

4
s
e
u
n
e
v
e
r

Economic activities 

 in € million   

in %    Y;N;N/EL    Y;N;N/EL    Y;N;N/EL    Y;N;N/EL    Y;N;N/EL    Y;N;N/EL    Y;N    Y;N    Y;N    Y;N    Y;N    Y;N    Y;N   

in %    E    T 

A .   T A X O N O M Y - E L I G I B L E   A C T I V I T I E S  

A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) 

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport 

 CCM 3.3; CCA 3.3  

19,077   

13.4   

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles 

 CCM 6.5; CCA 6.5  

1,742   

1.2   

Y   

Y   

Revenues of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1) 

20,819   

14.6    14.6%   

Of which enabling 

Of which transitional 

A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities 
(not Taxonomy-aligned activities) 

19,077   

13.4    13.4%   

142   

0.1   

0.1%   

N   

N   

0%   

0%   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

0%   

0%   

0%   

0%   

0%   

0%   

0%   

0%   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

15.0    E   

0.2   

    T 

15.2   

15.0    E   

0.0   

    T 

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport 

 CCM 3.3; CCA 3.3  

75,002   

52.7   

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles 

 CCM 6.5; CCA 6.5  

30,374   

21.3   

EL   

EL   

EL   

EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

Sale of second-hand goods2 

CE 5.4 

1,775   

1.2   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

EL   

N/EL   

  EL; N/EL    EL; N/EL    EL; N/EL    EL; N/EL    EL; N/EL    EL; N/EL   

Revenues of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities 
(not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2) 

A. Revenues of Taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1+A.2) 

B .   T A X O N O M Y - N O N - E L I G I B L E   A C T I V I T I E S  

Revenues of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities 

Total 

  107,151   

75.3   

  127,970   

89.9   

14,409   

10.1   

  142,380   

100.0   

1 With reference to Annex II of Delegated Regulation (EU) of 27 June 2023 (EU 2023/2486). 
2 No Taxonomy-aligned value can be determined for economic activity CE 5.4 due to it not being possible to track whether all relevant DNSH criteria (pollution) have been met. 
3 Taxonomy-aligned share of revenues per economic activity is 20.3% for CCM 3.3 and 5.4% for CCM 6.5, see ↗ Voluntary additional information on Taxonomy-aligned share per economic activity. 
4 Previous year’s value for CCM 6.5 and CE 5.4 adjusted due to CE 5.4 being restricted to third-party brands.

55.9   

19.7   

1.1   

76.7   

91.9   

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
157 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

Capital expenditure 

Financial year 2024 

2024 

Substantial contribution criteria 

DNSH criteria 
("Does not significantly harm") 

  2023 

n
o
i
t
a
g
i
t
i

m
e
g
n
a
h
c
e
t
a
m

n
o
i
t
p
a
d
a
e
g
n
a
h
c
e
t
a
m

i
l

  C

i
l

  C

2
x
E
p
a
C
f
o
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
  P

r
e
t
a
  W

1
)
s
(
e
d
o
C

x
E
p
a
  C

n
o
i
t
u

l
l

o
  P

n
o
i
t
a
g
i
t
i

m
e
g
n
a
h
c
e
t
a
m

n
o
i
t
p
a
d
a
e
g
n
a
h
c
e
t
a
m

i
l

 C

i
l

 C

r
e
t
a
 W

y
m
o
n
o
c
e
r
a
u
c
r
i
  C

l

y
t
i

s
r
e
v
d
o
  B

i

i

n
o
i
t
u

l
l

o
 P

y
m
o
n
o
x
a
T

f
o
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
 P

s
d
r
a
u
g
e
f
a
s
m
u
m
n
 M

i

i

y
m
o
n
o
c
e
r
a
u
c
r
i
 C

l

y
t
i

s
r
e
v
d
o
 B

i

i

)
2
A

.

l

(
e
b
g

i

i
l

e
r
o
)
1
A

.

(
d
e
n
g

i
l

a

y
t
i
v

i
t
c
a

l

a
n
o
i
t
i

s
n
a
r
t
y
r
o
g
e
t
a
 C

y
t
i
v
i
t
c
a
g
n

i
l

b
a
n
e
y
r
o
g
e
t
a
 C

x
E
p
a
C

Economic activities 

 in € million   

in %    Y;N;N/EL    Y;N;N/EL    Y;N;N/EL    Y;N;N/EL    Y;N;N/EL    Y;N;N/EL    Y;N    Y;N    Y;N    Y;N    Y;N    Y;N    Y;N   

in %    E    T 

A .   T A X O N O M Y - E L I G I B L E   A C T I V I T I E S  

A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) 

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport 

 CCM 3.3; CCA 3.3  

7,680   

20.9   

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles 

 CCM 6.5; CCA 6.5  

3,006   

8.2   

Y   

Y   

CapEx of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1) 

10,687   

29.1    29.1%   

Of which enabling 

Of which transitional 

A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities 
(not Taxonomy-aligned activities) 

7,680   

20.9    20.9%   

354   

1.0   

1.0%   

N   

N   

0%   

0%   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

0%   

0%   

0%   

0%   

0%   

0%   

0%   

0%   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

22.7    E   

3.3   

    T 

26.0   

22.7    E   

0.6   

    T 

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport 

 CCM 3.3; CCA 3.3  

4,800   

13.1   

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles 

 CCM 6.5; CCA 6.5  

21,192   

57.6   

EL   

EL   

EL   

EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

  EL; N/EL    EL; N/EL    EL; N/EL    EL; N/EL    EL; N/EL    EL; N/EL   

CapEx of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities 
(not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2) 

A. CapEx of Taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1+A.2) 

B .   T A X O N O M Y - N O N - E L I G I B L E   A C T I V I T I E S  

CapEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities 

Total 

25,991   

70.7   

36,678   

99.8   

87   

0.2   

36,765   

100.0   

1 With reference to Annex II of Delegated Regulation (EU) of 27 June 2023 (EU 2023/2486). 
2 Taxonomy-aligned share of capital expenditure per economic activity is 61.5% for CCM 3.3 and 12.4% for CCM 6.5, ↗ Voluntary additional information on Taxonomy-aligned share per economic activity. 

14.9   

58.9   

73.7   

99.8   

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
158 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

Operating expenditure 

Financial year 2024 

2024 

Substantial contribution criteria 

DNSH criteria 
("Does not significantly harm") 

  2023 

n
o
i
t
a
g
i
t
i

m
e
g
n
a
h
c
e
t
a
m

n
o
i
t
p
a
d
a
e
g
n
a
h
c
e
t
a
m

i
l

  C

i
l

  C

2
x
E
p
O

f
o
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
  P

r
e
t
a
  W

1
)
s
(
e
d
o
C

x
E
p
  O

n
o
i
t
u

l
l

o
  P

n
o
i
t
a
g
i
t
i

m
e
g
n
a
h
c
e
t
a
m

n
o
i
t
p
a
d
a
e
g
n
a
h
c
e
t
a
m

i
l

 C

i
l

 C

r
e
t
a
 W

y
m
o
n
o
c
e
r
a
u
c
r
i
  C

l

y
t
i

s
r
e
v
d
o
  B

i

i

n
o
i
t
u

l
l

o
 P

y
m
o
n
o
x
a
T

f
o
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
 P

s
d
r
a
u
g
e
f
a
s
m
u
m
n
 M

i

i

y
m
o
n
o
c
e
r
a
u
c
r
i
 C

l

y
t
i

s
r
e
v
d
o
 B

i

i

)
2
A

.

l

(
e
b
g

i

i
l

e
r
o
)
1
A

.

(
d
e
n
g

i
l

a

y
t
i
v

i
t
c
a

l

a
n
o
i
t
i

s
n
a
r
t
y
r
o
g
e
t
a
 C

y
t
i
v
i
t
c
a
g
n

i
l

b
a
n
e
y
r
o
g
e
t
a
 C

x
E
p
O

Economic activities 

 in € million   

in %    Y;N;N/EL    Y;N;N/EL    Y;N;N/EL    Y;N;N/EL    Y;N;N/EL    Y;N;N/EL    Y;N    Y;N    Y;N    Y;N    Y;N    Y;N    Y;N   

in %    E    T 

A .   T A X O N O M Y - E L I G I B L E   A C T I V I T I E S  

A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) 

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport 

 CCM 3.3; CCA 3.3  

2,125   

32.0   

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles 

 CCM 6.5; CCA 6.5  

21   

0.3   

Y   

Y   

OpEx of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1) 

2,146   

32.3    32.3%   

Of which enabling 

Of which transitional 

A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities 
(not Taxonomy-aligned activities) 

2,125   

32.0    32.0%   

0   

0.0   

0%   

N   

N   

0%   

0%   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

0%   

0%   

0%   

0%   

0%   

0%   

0%   

0%   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

Y   

30.9    E   

0.2   

    T 

31.1   

30.9    E   

0.0   

    T 

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport 

 CCM 3.3; CCA 3.3  

4,206   

63.4   

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles 

 CCM 6.5; CCA 6.5  

284   

4.3   

EL   

EL   

EL   

EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

N/EL   

  EL; N/EL    EL; N/EL    EL; N/EL    EL; N/EL    EL; N/EL    EL; N/EL   

OpEx of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities 
(not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2) 

A. OpEx of Taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1+A.2) 

B .   T A X O N O M Y - N O N - E L I G I B L E   A C T I V I T I E S  

OpEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities 

Total 

4,490   

67.7   

6,636   

100.0   

0   

0.0   

6,636   

100.0   

1 With reference to Annex II of Delegated Regulation (EU) of 27 June 2023 (EU 2023/2486). 
2 Taxonomy-aligned share of operating expenditure per economic activity is 33.6% for CCM 3.3 and 6.9% for CCM 6.5, ↗ Voluntary additional information on Taxonomy-aligned share per economic activity. 

65.1   

3.8   

68.9   

100.0   

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
194 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

Entries in the EU Transparency Register and in  
equivalent registers of the Member States 

 Register name 

Identification number in 
the register 

BMW AG 

 EU Transparency Register 

 7193977808-18 

 Lobby register for the 
representation of interests vis-à-
vis the German Bundestag and 
the Federal Government 

 R002370 

 Bavarian lobby register 

 DEBYLT007F 

BMW Motoren 
GmbH 

 Lobbying and interest 
representation register 

 LIVR-01130 

BMW Automotive 
(Ireland) Ltd. 

 Register of Lobbying maintained 
by the Standards in Public Office 
Commission 

 1373 

BMW France S.A. 

 Register of Lobbying maintained 
by HAUTE AUTORITÉ POUR LA 
TRANSPARENCE DE LA VIE 
PUBLIQUE (HATVP) 

 5HABRCXV, ZV92LP1H, 
YVIKRQAH, PVXASO43, 
UVPUF1GH, GVTU7903, 
EVJFE0PH, LV1DGNI3, 
BHOB62A3, 0VE7PMF3, 
Y3GQAMLH, DHMZCMYV, 
Y3KG6M5V, 0V2ARJJV, 
LV1C6E0V, C34BL90V, 
Q36SB5KV 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
195 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

OTHER ESG INFORMATION 

O T H E R   E N V I R O N M E N T A L   I N F O R M A T I O N  

CO2e footprint1 

in t CO2e 

Total emissions (market-based)2 

Total emissions (location-based) 

S C O P E   1 :   D I R E C T   G R E E N H O U S E   G A S   E M I S S I O N S  

Total emissions2 

BMW Group locations2 

Company vehicles2, 3 

Company-owned airplanes2 

Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated ETS (in %) 

S C O P E   2 :   I N D I R E C T   G R E E N H O U S E   G A S   E M I S S I O N S  

Total emissions (market-based)2 

Electricity/heating/cooling purchased by BMW Group locations (market-based)2, 4 

Electricity purchased for company vehicles (BEV) (market-based)2, 3, 4 

Entries in the EU Transparency Register 

S C O P E   1   +   S C O P E   2   ( M A R K E T - B A S E D ) :   R E D U C T I O N   T A R G E T S   D E R I V A T I O N 5  

Total emissions scope 1+2 

non-reduction-targeted scopes 

share of biogenic emissions 

Reduction path targeted scopes 

2024 

2023 

Base year: 
2019 

Deviation to 
previous year in 
% 

2025 

2030 

2050 

Annual % of 
target/base 
year 

131,134,201 

132,274,751 

– 

  mainly guided 

– 

– 

672,542 

572,972 

95,087 

4,482 

53.5 

164,421 

150,508 

13,913 

1,304,971 

836,963 

– 35,490 

8,324 

809,7976 

– 

  mainly guided 

– 

  mainly guided 

– 

  mainly guided 

– 

  mainly guided 

– 

– 

– 

  mainly guided 

– 

  mainly guided 

– 

  mainly guided 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

1,182,000 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

  mainly guided 

– 

– 

– 

  mainly guided 

– 

  mainly guided 

– 

  mainly guided 

– 

  mainly guided 

– 

– 

– 

  mainly guided 

– 

  mainly guided 

– 

  mainly guided 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

635,000 

– 

4.2 

1 For more information, see ↗ Glossary and Explanation of Key Figures. 
2 The marked categories are to a significant extent included in the reduction target. 
3 Emissions from company vehicles (Scope 1 and 2) are also included on a pro-rata basis under Employee commuting and Use of sold products [Use phase]. A distinction in the systems is currently not possible. 
4 Emissions from company vehicles (Scope 2) are also included on a pro-rata basis under the electricity/heat/cooling purchased by BMW Group locations. A distinction in the systems is currently not possible. 
5 The combined Scope 1 and 2 target includes all of the categories reported. At present, sites without operational control are not included in the target. The base year 2019 also includes emissions from contract manufacturing (”insourcing”). In the base year 2019 and the target year 2030, the biogenic share of 

emissions of the category Company vehicles (Scope 1), as well as of the average electricity mix supplied to the BMW Group in the category electricity/heat/cooling purchased by BMW Group locations is included. Emissions under Scope 2 are included in the target using the market-based calculation. 

6 Assurance level: reasonable assurance. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
196 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

CO2e footprint1 

in t CO2e 

2024 

2023 

Base year: 
2019 

Deviation to 
previous year in 
% 

2025 

2030 

2050 

Annual % of 
target / base 
year 

S C O P E   3 :   I N D I R E C T   G R E E N H O U S E   G A S   E M I S S I O N S  

Total emissions2 

Purchased goods and services2, 3 

Capital goods 

Fuel and energy-related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 

130,297,238 

– 

  mainly guided 

31,892,268 

– 

  mainly guided 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

Upstream transportation and distribution [Logistics]2, 4 

2,931,346 

– 

  mainly guided 

Waste generated in operations 

Business travelling 

Employee commuting [Employees' commuter traffic]5 

Upstream leased assets 

Downstream transportation 

Processing of sold products 

Use of sold products [Use phase]2, 5 

End-of-life treatment of sold products [Disposal]3 

Downstream leased assets 

Franchises 

Investments 

S C O P E   3 :   R E D U C T I O N   T A R G E T S   D E R I V A T I O N 6  

Total emissions scope 3 

non-reduction-targeted scopes 

share of biogenic emissions 

Reduction path targeted scopes 

– 

96,775 

182,833 

– 

– 

– 

93,652,616 

1,541,400 

– 

– 

– 

130,297,238 

– 5,337,394 

99,229 

  125,059,0737 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

  mainly guided 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

148,900,000 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

  mainly guided 

– 

  mainly guided 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

  mainly guided 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

  mainly guided 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

108,000,000 

– 

2.5 

1 For more information, see ↗ Glossary and Explanation of Key Figures. 
2 The marked categories are to a significant extent included in the reduction target. 
3 Energy consumption (lower calorific value) of the purchased goods and services category and the end-of-life treatment of sold products [disposal] category are determined based on life cycle assessments of representative vehicles of the product lines in accordance with ISO 14040/44: 120 TWh in the 

purchased goods and services category and 1.01 TWh in the end-of-life treatment of sold products [disposal] category. 

4 Includes the downstream transportation category in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 
5 Emissions from company vehicles (Scope 1 and 2) are also included on a pro rata basis under Employee commuting and Use of sold products [Use phase]. A distinction in the systems is currently not possible. 
6 At present, only the emissions from the automotive core segment are being targeted. The Scope 3 target includes the categories Purchased goods and services, Upstream transport and distribution (Logistics), and Use of sold products (Use phase). In the base year 2019 and the target year 2030, the biogenic 

share of emissions is included in the figure for the Purchased goods and services category. 

7 Assurance level: reasonable assurance. 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
197 

BMW Group Report 2024 

To Our Stakeholders 

Combined Management Report    Group Financial Statements 

  Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report 

  Remuneration Report 

  Other Information 

 Sustainability Statement  

Scope 3 categories are assessed for both current reporting and 
target-setting purposes in accordance with the guidelines of the 
Greenhouse  Gas  Protocol.  Besides  the  absolute  volume  and 
share in total emissions, the most important criterion is the extent 
to which they can be influenced directly. Based on this approach, 
the  categories  “Purchased  goods  and  services”,  “Upstream 
transport and distribution [Logistics]”, and “Use of sold products 
[Use phase]” are both reported and factored into the target-set-
ting process. In the target Scope, we therefore achieve coverage 
of more than 95% of all Scope 3 emissions. Additional reported 
categories  are  excluded  from  the  reduction  target  because  the 
volumes in question are relatively small (Business travelling and 
Employee commuting) or because the BMW Group is limited in 
terms  of  how  much  it  can  influence  them  directly  (End-of-Life 
treatment of sold products [Disposal]). 

Biogenic emissions1 

in t CO2 

Total biogenic emissions 

Scope 1 

Scope 2 (market-based)2 

Scope 3 

1 For additional information, see ↗ Glossary and Explanation of Key Figures. 
2 The biogenic Scope 2 emissions (location-based) amount to 187,517 t CO2e. 

2024 

4,624,896 

42,959 

21,942 

4,559,995 

 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
