33   COMBINED GROUP AND COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT

Development of credit loss ratio

in %

0.9 

0.8 

0.7 

0.6 

0.5 

0.4 

0.3 

 08 

 09 

 10 

 11 

 12 

0.59 

0.84 

0.67 

0.49 

0.48 

Losses are managed using an integrated limit system 
based on a limit determined and set at the beginning 
of each financial year by reference to available risk 
 coverage equity. The stipulated limit was not exceeded 
in 2012, which means that the segment’s risk-bearing 
capacity was ensured at all times (see also section “Risk 
Management”).

RESEARCH  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Research and development expenditure increased
In 2012 our Research and Innovation network employed 
a workforce of more than 10,900 people based in 13 lo-
cations spread over five countries. Research and devel-
opment expenditure for the year rose by 17.2 % to 
€ 3,952 million, mostly on projects aimed at securing the 
Group’s future (2011: € 3,373 million). The research and 
development ratio was 5.1 %, 0.2 percentage points 
higher than in the previous year (2011: 4.9 %). Further 
information on research and development activities is 
provided in note 9 to the Group Financial Statements.

New Efficient Dynamics engine family under 
 development
Efficient Dynamics is one of the most effective strate-
gies for reducing both fuel consumption and CO2 emis-
sions. During the period under report the efficiency of 
our combustion engines was further improved while 
maintaining or even boosting engine performance. Fur-
thermore, full hybrid drive systems were developed 
for the BMW 3 Series and 7 Series and additional pro-
gress was made in the fields of energy management and 
lightweight construction.

In 2012 we presented a 1.5-litre engine based on the 
BMW TwinPower Turbo technology. This 3-cylinder en-
gine is one of the first power units of the new Efficient 
Dynamics engine family. It is based on a standardised 
design principle and uses a higher number of common 
components both for petrol and diesel engines. It is 
thus possible to effectively develop 3-, 4- and 6-cylinder 
engines of varying capacities using one common tech-
nological concept.

Since 2011 we have been offering the ECO PRO Driving 
Experience Control, which enables drivers to select 
 between various driving modes from sporty to highly 
economical. The latest ECO PRO mode is connected to 
the navigation system. With the help of navigation 
data, the vehicle anticipates the road ahead and provides 
the driver with information that promotes efficient 
 driving. For instance, the vehicle’s energy management 
system knows it is approaching a town and gives the 
driver an appropriate early warning. In combination 
with the ECO PRO coasting function, the engine is de-
coupled and the vehicle is then only slowed by the aero-
dynamic drag and rolling resistance. Consistent use of 
the ECO PRO mode can reduce fuel consumption signifi-
cantly.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18  

    COMBINED GROUP AND COMPANY 

MANAGEMENT  REPORT
    A Review of the Financial Year
    General Economic Environment
    Review of Operations

18  
21  
24  

    Automotive segment
    Motorcycles segment
    Financial Services segment
    Research and development
    Purchasing
    Sales and Marketing
    Workforce
    Sustainability

24  
30  
31  
33  
36  
37  
39  
41  
    BMW Stock and Capital Market
    Disclosures relevant for takeovers 
and explanatory comments
    Financial Analysis
    Internal Control System and 
 explanatory comments
    Risk Management
    Outlook

44  
47  

50  
65  

66  
74  

34

We have also made improvements to our hybrid tech-
nology and are currently offering BMW ActiveHybrid 
technology for the models BMW ActiveHybrid 7, 
BMW ActiveHybrid 5 and BMW ActiveHybrid 3. The 
power for the electrically driven features in these 
 vehicles is largely generated by the Brake Energy Re-
generation system.

Further progress was also made in the field of light-
weight construction during the period under report. 
Current examples are bumper brackets made of 
 aluminium and instrument panel supports of magne-
sium.

In order to offer customers the BMW i3 and i8 complete 
with electricity from fully renewable sources, in 2012 
the BMW Group entered into a strategic cooperation 
with NATURSTROM AG. In a further step towards the 
complete automation of CFRP production, cooperation 
arrangements with the aircraft manufacturer Boeing 
were announced in December 2012, the main points of 
which are research into the recycling of carbon fibres 
and the automation of production processes. We also 
entered into strategic partnerships during the year un-
der report with a view to establishing efficient, cus-
tomer-friendly wallboxes in the garages of BMW i3 and 
i8 owners.

BMW ConnectedDrive: innovations for 
connected mobility
Connected Drive stands for forward-looking vehicle 
concepts and technologies. New functions demon-
strate the innovation leadership of the BMW Group 
when it comes to the connectedness of the driver, the 
vehicle and the environment.

The latest generation of our navigation system is equipped 
with a three-dimensional graphic visualisation that 
 includes additional functions as well as an optimised 
 display and operating concept. The new dictation func-
tion with speech-text entry enables the driver to dictate 
texts for e-mails and SMS text messages. Moreover, in 
2012 the BMW Group became the first carmaker world-
wide to offer high-speed Internet functionality in a 
 vehicle. The LTE standard forms the interface between 
the user’s mobile end device and the Internet.

Since August 2012 the My BMW Remote app has also 
been available for smartphones with Android operating 
systems. My BMW Remote enables BMW owners to ac-
tivate numerous practical functions of their vehicle re-
motely, such as doors to be locked and unlocked. In addi-
tion, users of BMW ConnectedDrive and MINI Connected 
now have new apps designed to enhance the range of in-
formation and entertainment available within the vehicle.

BMW i3 Concept Coupé and i8 Concept Spyder 
 celebrate world premiere
In April 2012 the BMW i8 Concept Spyder celebrated 
its world premiere at the Shanghai Motor Show. In 
June we demonstrated the use of regenerative materials 
for vehicle interiors based on the BMW i3 Concept. The 
BMW i3 Concept Coupé was presented in Los Angeles 
in November. As well as providing an opportunity to 
preview the design of a model nearing series production, 
the complete connectedness of this vehicle with the 
 outside world was in the spotlight.

Research project enables cars and motorcycles to 
 communicate with each other
Numerous companies from the automotive and tele-
communications industries, the government of the Ger-
man state of Hesse and the city of Frankfurt am Main 
as well as various universities and scientific institutions 
have united in the research project “Sichere Intelligente 
Mobilität – Testfeld Deutschland (simTD)”. Their joint 
aim is to test the functionality, suitability for everyday 
use and effectiveness of car-to-X communication for the 
first time under real conditions. After four years of re-
search work, the field trial commenced in October 2012 
with over 120 vehicles. The BMW Group is the only pro-
ject partner taking part in the field trial with both cars 
and motorcycles. The simTD project is testing various 
driver assistance systems based on car-to-X communi-
cation methods for BMW Group cars and motorcycles. 
For example, traffic light systems can transmit informa-
tion about their switching times to enable a driver assis-
tance system to either pass on information regarding the 
optimum speed for a personal “green wave” or warn 
about the imminent danger of going through a red light 
(traffic light phase assistant). A specific transfer of 
data describing the traffic situation, the condition of 
the road surface and further factors makes it possible to 
relay early warnings of accidents (obstacle warning), 
traffic jams (end-of-jam warning) or the formation of 
black ice (road weather warning) from one vehicle to 
other motorists in the vicinity. Additionally, based on 
the vehicle data transferred, it is possible to calculate the 
risk of a collision, enabling warnings to be transmitted 
about the risk of collision at crossings (cross-traffic as-
sistant). Further car-to-X functions in the simTD re-
search project are the warning for emergency vehicles, 
the electronic brake light and the road sign assistant. 
Moreover, the test vehicles supply the data necessary to 
improve  traffic management. In this way, traffic jams 
can be anticipated, CO2 emissions can be reduced and 
waiting times at traffic lights minimised.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35   COMBINED GROUP AND COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT

Numerous awards received once again for 
 achievements in the field of development
Alongside the BMW 6 Series Convertible, the BMW 6 Se-
ries Coupé, the BMW 1 Series M Coupé and the 
BMW ActiveE, in January 2012 two of the Group’s mo-
torcycles, the BMW K 1600 GT / GTL and the BMW 
G 650 GS received the 2011 GOOD DESIGNTM Award. 
For over 60 years the world’s oldest design award has 
been given to manufacturers and designers for especially 
innovative, visionary products, concepts and ideas. 
The awards are given according to the criteria of func-
tionality and aesthetics and are supplemented by a 
 contemporary ecological standard of sustainable design. 
In July the Group additionally received the GREEN 
GOOD DESIGNTM Award for the BMW i8 Concept, the 
BMW i3 Concept and the MINI Rocketman Concept. Cri-
teria such as low energy consumption and reduced de-
pendency on fossil fuels are particularly focused on.

In February 2012 the new BMW 6 Series Coupé re-
ceived the iF Gold Award for outstanding design. The 
special prize is the highest award that the renowned 
 International Forum Design can bestow. In addition, 
the BMW 1 Series, the BMW 1 Series M Coupé, the 
BMW 6 Series Convertible and the BMW G 650 GS 
 motorcycle received iF Product Design Awards. The iF 
Design Award of the International Forum Design has 
established itself over the last 60 years or so as one 
of the most highly regarded seals of quality for out-
standing design work.

When it came to the red dot awards, the BMW Group was 
proud to receive a total of eleven of these internationally 
coveted prizes, including two with the highest seal of 
quality “best of the best” for the BMW AirFlow 2 helmet 
and the Husqvarna Nuda 900R. The red dot award 
was also given to the BMW 6 Series Gran Coupé, the 
BMW 6 Series Coupé, the BMW M5, the BMW 1 Series 
M Coupé, the BMW C 600 SPORT, the BMW C 650 GT, 
the BMW K 1600 GT and the BMW G 650 GS. The BMW 
3 Series Sedan also earned an Honourable Mention. The 
red dot award, which was first presented in 1955, is one 
of the world’s most prestigious awards in the field of 
product design. With this award, the jury, which consists 
of 30 international design experts, honours extraordinary 
design achievements in a wide range of fields.

In October 2012 the jury of experts of the German Design 
Council announced the winner of the German Design 
Awards 2013. At this year’s competition, the BMW 6 Se-
ries Convertible was among the winners in the Trans-
portation and Public Space category. The BMW 1 Series 
and the Husqvarna Nuda 900R also received recognition. 

The two vehicles earned a Special Mention for their 
 particularly outstanding design features. The 30-person 
jury of the German Design Award 2013 comprises de-
sign experts from commerce, science and the design in-
dustry. The competition pays tribute to innovative and 
international design trends.

The sixth generation of the BMW 3 Series received the 
internationally prestigious “Goldenes Lenkrad” auto-
motive prize, which is already the fifth success for this 
series. The BMW 3 Series Sedan came out top in the 
medium- and luxury-class category. The award is given 
to the most convincing new car of the year on the mar-
ket in each category.

With victories in four classes as well as four second and 
two third places in the “International Engine of the 
Year Award” we repeated the success of the previous year 
and simultaneously underscored our leading position 
as the dominant manufacturer in this competition. Win-
ners in their classes were the 1.6-litre turbo engine of the 
MINI Cooper S, the 4-cylinder engine featuring BMW 
TwinPower Turbo technology that currently powers the 
new BMW 328i, the in-line 6-cylinder with M TwinPower 
Turbo engine from the BMW 1 Series M Coupé and the 
V8 propulsion unit under the bonnet of the BMW M3.

BMW crowns DTM comeback with all three titles
BMW Motorsport celebrated its first season back in the 
German Touring Car Masters (DTM) championship 
with a clean sweep in all three categories. Not only the 
drivers’ title, but also the teams’ and manufacturers’ 
 titles all went to BMW. With this triple success, BMW 
Motorsport can look back at a DTM season in which its 
three teams and six drivers greatly exceeded all expec-
tations with the BMW M3 DTM. Apart from four victo-
ries, we also managed an additional seven placings.

18  

    COMBINED GROUP AND COMPANY 

MANAGEMENT  REPORT
    A Review of the Financial Year
    General Economic Environment
    Review of Operations

18  
21  
24  

    Automotive segment
    Motorcycles segment
    Financial Services segment
    Research and development
    Purchasing
    Sales and Marketing
    Workforce
    Sustainability

24  
30  
31  
33  
36  
37  
39  
41  
    BMW Stock and Capital Market
    Disclosures relevant for takeovers 
and explanatory comments
    Financial Analysis
    Internal Control System and 
 explanatory comments
    Risk Management
    Outlook

44  
47  

50  
65  

66  
74  

36

PURCHASING

Purchasing and Supplier Network functions 
further enhanced
As the leading provider of premium automobiles, to-
gether with its partners the BMW Group operates the 
most  efficient supply chain in the automotive industry. 
In today’s volatile environment this means being able at 
all times to react swiftly and flexibly to fluctuations in 
demand while maintaining a consistently high quality 
of parts and competitive costs. Moreover, we have made 
it a key aim to promote our own innovative strengths and 
those of our suppliers to enhance our position as the 
leading provider of innovations in the premium segment.

In advance of the introduction of the BMW i3 in 2013 
we drew up an extensive sustainability programme dur-
ing the period under report, aimed at generating yet 
further improvements in the field of resource efficiency.

Numerous model start-ups during the reporting year
Numerous new models were launched in 2012 for the 
BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce brands. BMW success-
fully launched six new derivatives of the 1, 3, 5 and 
6 Series. MINI successfully introduced its Coupé, while 
Rolls-Royce Motor Cars brought its Phantom Series II 
onto the market. Particularly worthy of mention are the 
launch in 2012 of the BMW 6 Series Gran Coupé and 
the two hybrid vehicles, the BMW ActiveHybrid 3 and 
BMW ActiveHybrid 5. The BMW Group also introduced 
the extended-wheelbase version of the BMW 3 Series 
Sedan to the Chinese market and brought out revised 
versions of the BMW 7 Series and the X1 in order to 
satisfy rising demand in the fast-growing markets of 
China, India, Brazil and Russia.

Further internationalisation of procurement markets
The BMW Group continued to focus in 2012 on increas-
ing the international scale of its purchasing activities. 
One example of this was the success achieved with the 
newly launched BMW 1 Series and 3 Series models. The 
opening of our new plant in Tiexi*, China, for instance, 
enabled us to significantly increase the volume of mate-
rial purchased locally. This is a good example of how 
we are increasingly shifting added value along the sup-
ply chain and into our sales markets, thus helping us 
to hedge currency exposures. Multi-currency ordering 
also enables us to pay for purchasing volumes in the 
currency in which added value is generated.

High level of investment safeguards productivity 
and technology lead
In addition to its purchasing, quality assurance and 
 logistics functions, the BMW Group’s Purchasing and 
* Joint venture BMW Brilliance

Regional mix of BMW Group purchase volumes 2012

in %, basis: production material

Africa

Asia / Australia

NAFTA

Central and 
Eastern Europe

Germany

Rest of Western Europe

Germany  

 50.3 

NAFTA  

Rest of Western Europe  

Central and Eastern Europe  

 17.3 

 14.8 

Asia / Australia  

Africa  

 13.4

 3.1

 1.1

Supplier team is also responsible for component pro-
duction sites, an arrangement that is unique in the auto-
motive industry. Regular comparative analyses help 
to guarantee that processes are efficient and effective. 
The sites concerned are regularly required to prove their 
competitiveness against external providers. The high 
level of efficiency achieved was again borne out in 2012 
by the bestowal of numerous industry awards.

The significance of Landshut as the competence cen-
tre for lightweight construction and electromobility 
within the BMW Group was underlined by the com-
missioning of the production plant for ultra-light-
weight carbon-fibre parts. The carbon fibre cores pro-
duced at the Wackersdorf plant are processed in 
Landshut to form CFRP body parts and subsequently 
delivered to the BMW plant in Leipzig, where produc-
tion of the BMW i3 and BMW i8 will commence dur-
ing the course of 2013. This investment in CFRP tech-
nology provides the basis for large-scale automated 
series production of carbon-fibre parts and is an 
 important aspect of the BMW Group’s long-term light-
weight construction strategy. For the time being at 
least, the BMW Group is in a unique position within 
the automotive industry.

In addition to the manufacturing of carbon-fibre cores 
and cockpits for the BMW 1 Series and 3 Series, the 
Wackersdorf plant handles packaging and distribution 
of small parts for CKD / SKD production worldwide. As 
such, the plant constitutes a key element of the Group’s 
logistics arrangements.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
41   COMBINED GROUP AND COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT

SUSTAINABILITY

Safeguarding the future of the BMW Group with 
 sustainable business practices
Commercial success, the responsible use of resources 
and the assumption of social responsibility form the 
 basis for long-term growth and a steady rise in corpo-
rate value. Sustainability is therefore a key element in 
our Strategy Number ONE.

The BMW Group’s sustainability strategy is valid through-
out the organisation and is incorporated in the Group 
Balanced Scorecard as a strategic corporate goal. In 2012 
we again asserted our position as most sustainable pre-
mium provider in the field of individual mobility, a fact 
also confirmed by an independent source: in the Dow 
Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) rankings published in 
September 2012, the BMW Group was listed as the most 
sustainable automobile manufacturer in the world for 
the eighth time in succession.

The Sustainability Board, which includes all members 
of the BMW Board of Management, continually develops 
the Group’s sustainability strategy and manages sustain-
ability initiatives group-wide. The Sustainability Board 
meets twice a year and is supported by the Sustainability 
Committee, comprising representatives from the various 
fields of responsibility. The principal task of this body 
is to ensure implementation of the sustainability strategy 
across the Group.

As well as paying due attention to social and ecological 
aspects in decision-making, the BMW Group’s sustain-
ability management strategy encompasses the system-
atic analysis of external framework conditions and a 
continual dialogue with our stakeholders. The stake-
holder dialogues held in Berlin and San Francisco in 
2012 provided us with important input for the further 
enhancement of our sustainability strategy.

Clean production: key milestone reached
The integration of environmental management in all 
production processes enables us to reduce our use of 
 resources and minimise environmental impact. We see 
this as an ongoing process. At an early stage we set our-
selves the goal of a 30 % reduction in average  resource 
consumption and emissions per vehicle produced for 
the period 2006 to 2012, using the measurable parame-
ters energy, water, process wastewater, non- recyclable 
waste and solvents. We also check the level of CO2 emis-
sions resulting from energy consumption. In actual fact, 
we improved efficiency by more than a third (35.7 %), 
thus surpassing our ambitious target.

A more detailed look at the fundamental parameters 
over the six-year period shows the following picture:

Energy consumption

Water consumption

Process wastewater

Non-recyclable waste

Solvent emissions

  – 26 %  

  – 30 %  

  – 36 %  

  – 65 %  

  – 27 %  

During the same period the CO2 emissions per vehicle 
produced also fell by 30 %. We have now set ourselves 
new targets to be reached by 2020: we aim to reduce 
 resource consumption and emissions per vehicle pro-
duced by an average of 45 % compared to 2006.

Conserving resources in production
During the period under report, resource consumption 
and emissions per vehicle produced were reduced by 
an average of 11.6 %, equivalent to cost savings of more 
than €9 million on the previous year.

Energy consumed per vehicle produced

in MWh / vehicle

Water consumption per vehicle produced
in m3 / vehicle

3.00 

2.80 

2.60 

2.40 

2.20 

2.00 

2.80 

2.60 

2.40 

2.20 

2.00 

1.80 

 08 

 09 

 10 

 11 

 12 

 08 

 09 

 10 

 11 

 12 

2.80 

2.89 

2.75 

2.46 

2.44 

2.56 

2.56 

2.31 

2.12 

2.10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
18  

    COMBINED GROUP AND COMPANY 

MANAGEMENT  REPORT
    A Review of the Financial Year
    General Economic Environment
    Review of Operations

18  
21  
24  

    Automotive segment
    Motorcycles segment
    Financial Services segment
    Research and development
    Purchasing
    Sales and Marketing
    Workforce
    Sustainability

24  
30  
31  
33  
36  
37  
39  
41  
    BMW Stock and Capital Market
    Disclosures relevant for takeovers 
and explanatory comments
    Financial Analysis
    Internal Control System and 
 explanatory comments
    Risk Management
    Outlook

44  
47  

50  
65  

66  
74  

42

CO2 emissions per vehicle produced
in t / vehicle

Process wastewater per vehicle produced
in m3 / vehicle

0.90 

0.85 

0.80 

0.75 

0.70 

0.65 

0.70 

0.60 

0.50 

0.40 

0.30 

0.20 

 08 

 09 

 10 

 11 

 12 

 08 

 09 

 10 

 11 

 12 

0.82 

0.91 

0.86 

0.71 

0.68 

0.64 

0.62 

0.58 

0.54 

0.48 

The high number of model start-ups, the increasing 
number of models being launched and the greater verti-
cal range of manufacture, such as with CFRP, were the 
main challenges in our endeavours to improve energy 
efficiency. Expansion of our highly efficient and ecologi-
cally sustainable combined heat and power plants led to 
higher consumption due to conversion factors. Despite 
this fact we managed to reduce the energy consumed 
per vehicle produced in 2012 to 2.44 MWh (– 0.8 %). This 
improvement was achieved by means of a number of 
measures such as the use of waste heat from the paint 
shop at the Leipzig plant and the use of energy-efficient 
motors for cooling the computer centre at our Oxford 
plant. Greater energy efficiency and the use of electric-
ity produced from regenerative sources helped to re-
duce the CO2 emissions per vehicle produced by 4.2 % 
to 0.68 tonnes during the period under report.

The volume of water required per vehicle produced also 
fell to 2.10 m3 (– 0.9 %) in 2012. The amount of process 
wastewater produced decreased by 11.1 % to 0.48 m3 per 
vehicle produced. The conversion of the paint shop 
in Spartanburg to a water-free paint process and the re-

use of water in the paint shops at the Dingolfing and 
Munich plants were the main contributing factors to 
this  reduction.

The volume of non-recyclable production waste was re-
duced by a further 23.5 % to 6.11 kg per vehicle pro-
duced in 2012. The primary reason for the improvement 
was the conversion from waste disposal to recycling at 
all plants in the UK.

Solvent emissions increased slightly by 1.8 % to 1.68 kg 
per vehicle produced during the period under report, 
largely due to increased production volumes in China. 
New, eco-friendly painting processes will come on line 
at the Tiexi* plant by the end of 2013. The paint shop 
at the Dadong* plant is also scheduled for retrofitting 
with a view to minimising solvent emissions in years to 
come.
* Joint venture BMW Brilliance

Eco-friendly transportation solutions
The general increase in production volume combined 
with regional shifts in demand had an impact on the 

Waste for disposal per vehicle produced

in kg / vehicle

17.5 

15.0 

12.5 

10.0 

  7.5 

  5.0 

Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 
per vehicle produced

in kg / vehicle

2.50 

2.25 

2.00 

1.75 

1.50 

 08 

 09 

 10 

 11 

 12 

 08 

 09 

 10 

 11 

 12 

14.84 

10.63 

10.09 

7.99 

6.11 

1.96 

1.77 

1.60 

1.65 

1.68 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
43   COMBINED GROUP AND COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT

percentages of various modes of transportation used. 
The percentage of air freight used edged up to 1.2 %. 
The percentage of sea freight also rose slightly to 
79.2 %. Rail transportation went up to 8.9 %, whereas 
the amount of goods transported by road fell to 
10.7 %. Overall, 56.9 % of all new vehicles left the Group’s 
plants by rail (+ 3.8 percentage points).

tation of innovative car-sharing strategies, also with 
purely electrically powered vehicles under the 
 DriveNow brand, we are consciously addressing 
 changing needs in the field of individual mobility. 
 Further information on this topic can be found in 
the sections “Research and Development” and “Sales 
and Marketing”.

Sustainability also demanded in supplier network
Sustainability aspects also play a key role in the selec-
tion and assessment of our suppliers. More information 
on this topic is available in the section “Purchasing”.

Top position in premium segment for reduction 
of CO2 emissions
Increasingly strict legislation governing vehicle emissions 
worldwide is presenting new challenges for the auto-
motive industry. The BMW Group took measures at an 
early stage aimed at achieving significant reductions in 
the fuel consumption and emission levels of its vehicle 
fleet. Efficient Dynamics innovations are having a bene-
ficial impact on the entire fleet and are subject to con-
tinual improvement. As from 2013 the electric drive 
 systems in products of the sub-brand BMW i will be in-
creasingly supplementing our range of models. With 
the growing use of electricity to power vehicles and the 
rise of hybrid technology, we will continue to play a ma-
jor role in reducing CO2 emissions and improving fuel 
economy. All of these factors taken together will enable 
us to meet applicable CO2 and fuel consumption 
thresholds in the future.

Between 1995 and 2012 we reduced the CO2 emissions 
levels of our newly sold cars in Europe by more than 
30 %. In 2012 the BMW Group’s vehicle fleet recorded 
average fuel consumption of 5.0 litres of diesel / 100 km, 
6.3 litres of petrol / 100 km and average CO2 emissions 
of 138 g / km in Europe (EU-27). We also lead the field 
among German premium-segment manufacturers with 
CO2 emissions of 143 g / km. In 2012 the BMW Group’s 
fleet already included 34 models with emissions of less 
than 120 g CO2 / km. Our efficient technologies have 
given us a competitive edge, particularly in markets 
 governed by a CO2-based vehicle tax. It remains our 
goal to reduce the CO2 emissions of our vehicle fleet by 
at least another 25 % between 2008 and 2020.

Strategic orientation towards sustainable individual 
mobility of the future
We think the term “premium” will be increasingly 
 defined by reference to sustainability in years to come. 
With our own BMW i sub-brand and the implemen-

67   COMBINED GROUP AND COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT

The risk management system is tested regularly by the 
Internal Audit. By regularly sharing experiences with 
other companies, the BMW Group ensures that new in-
sights flow into the risk management system, thus con-
tributing to continual improvement. Regular basic and 
further training as well as information events are invalu-
able ways of preparing people for new or additional re-
quirements with regard to the processes in which they 
are involved.

Managing the business on a sustainable basis is a core 
corporate strategy (see “Sustainability” section in the 
Combined Group and Company Management Report). 
Opportunities and risks related to sustainability issues 
are discussed in a sustainability committee. Strategic 
options and measures open to the BMW Group are put 
forward to the Sustainability Board, to which all mem-
bers of the Board of Management belong. The emer-
gence of new risks is also monitored closely throughout 
the group-wide risk network. The close ties between 
steering and sustainability committees ensure that risk 
and sustain ability management are closely coordinated.

The principal risk factors facing the BMW Group are de-
scribed below. Additional disclosures on risks relating 
to financial instruments are provided in note 41 of the 
Group Financial Statements.

Political and global economic risks
The ever-growing complexity and intensity of world-
wide competition is constantly increasing the danger of 
incalculable chain reactions and their consequences. 
General anxiety regarding the stability of the finance 
system and further developments in the sovereign debt 
crisis currently constitute risk factors for business per-
formance. The slow-down of economic momentum in 
China, political instability in the Middle East and parts 
of Asia as well as market regulations in various coun-
tries pose further risks.

The escalation of political tension, terrorist activities, 
natural disasters or possible pandemics could all have a 
negative impact on the world economy and interna-
tional capital markets that can lead to a scarcity of raw 
materials and the possible breakdown of material or 
parts deliveries. The BMW Group counters these risks 
primarily by internationalising its purchasing, sales and 
production structures in order to reduce the potential 
impact of risk exposures in individual countries.

Strategic and sector-specific risks
The car manufacturing industry worldwide is faced with 
the constant challenge of having to reduce fuel con-

sumption and emissions and raise safety standards at 
the same time. These requirements are increasingly 
 accompanied by rules governing individual mobility in 
metropolitan areas. Changing regulations and rising 
fuel and energy prices also influence customer behaviour. 
One of the main risks the industry faces is the possible 
threat of short-term tightening of laws and regulations 
that can trigger the requirement for significantly higher 
levels of investment. In some cases, changes in customer 
behaviour are not only brought on by new regulations, 
but also through changes of opinion, values and envi-
ronmental issues. Among other factors, global climate 
change is having an effect on legislation, regulations 
and consumer behaviour. In order to meet structural 
changes in the demand for individual mobility that no 
longer necessarily means actually owning a vehicle, we 
are offering corresponding mobility services, such as 
the DriveNow car-sharing model.

With its Efficient Dynamics concept, the BMW Group 
has a pioneering role in reducing both fuel consump-
tion and emissions and fulfilling legal rules and require-
ments at the same time. In addition, the BMW Group is 
investing in the development of sustainable drive tech-
nologies and materials, with the aim of providing highly 
efficient vehicles for individual mobility in the premium 
segment well into the future.

Risks emanating from statutory requirements to take 
back and recycle end-of-life vehicles are minimised 
by ensuring that “designing for recycling” is fully con-
sidered during the product development stage. All ef-
forts are taken to ensure that the raw materials gained 
from recycling end-of-life vehicles can be reused in the 
production process. Statutory risks stemming from 
 vehicle recycling in various markets are minimised by 
means of a specialised in-house team working in con-
junction with regional managers.

Medium- and long-term targets have already been put 
in place in Europe, North America, Japan, China and 
other countries to reduce fuel consumption and CO2 
emissions. Europe has set a target of achieving an aver-
age of 130 g CO2 / km for all new vehicles by 2015. The 
EU Regulation defines rules for CO2 emissions based on 
the weight of each particular vehicle. For the BMW Group 
this means a target of under 140 g CO2 / km per vehicle. 
In the USA fuel economy targets have now been defined 
up to the year 2025. Beginning with a gradual reduction 
for 2012 models, the new car fleets of all manufac-
turers are to achieve an average emission value of 250 g 
CO2 / mile (155 g CO2 / km) by model year 2016 and 
an average value of 163 g CO2 / mile (101 g CO2 / km) by 

18  

    COMBINED GROUP AND COMPANY 

18  
21  
24  
44  
47  

50  

65  

MANAGEMENT  REPORT
    A Review of the Financial Year
    General Economic Environment
    Review of Operations
    BMW Stock and Capital Market
    Disclosures relevant for takeovers 
and explanatory comments
    Financial Analysis
50  
52  
54  
57  
59  
59  
61  
62  
    Internal Control System and 
 explanatory comments

    Internal Management System
    Earnings Performance
    Financial Position
    Net Assets Position
    Subsequent Events Report
    Value Added Statement
    Key Performance Figures
    Comments on BMW AG

66  
74  

    Risk Management
    Outlook

68

model year 2025. Japan has also set ambitious targets 
for reducing fuel consumption. Authorities in China are 
currently discussing new, stricter regulations to tighten 
up the existing individual vehicle fuel consumption rules 
for the years 2013 to 2015.

The broader market introduction of alternative drive 
systems means new challenges and additional investment 
for the automotive industry. At the same time we also 
see this as an opportunity to put our technological exper-
tise and innovative strengths to use. Greater fuel econ-
omy and the reduction of emissions are fundamental 
parameters that we automatically include when designing 
new products.

In the short and medium term we will achieve greater fuel 
economy by electrifying the drivetrain and developing 
comprehensive hybrid systems. We are also working on 
 solutions for sustainable mobility in densely populated 
areas. Large-scale field trials with the MINI E have 
been carried out in the UK, Germany, France, the USA, 
China and Japan. A test fleet of BMW ActiveE electric 
cars based on the BMW 1 Series Coupé has been on the 
road since 2011. The extensive knowledge gained from 
the trials will be used in the series development of the 
BMW Group’s electric cars. The BMW i3 will come onto 
the market at the end of 2013 as the first series-produced 
electric car made by the BMW Group for the metro-
politan regions of the world.

Not only the safety of our customers, but that of all other 
road users is an essential component of our product re-
sponsibility. The BMW Group analyses the entire pro-
cess chain from accident prevention to post-crash appli-
cations, such as the extended emergency call integrated 
in Connected Drive, which is a unique innovation. In 
order to minimise injury and damage caused by acci-
dents we are employing both active and passive safety 
technologies. Active safety measures such as suspen-
sion regulation and driver assistance systems make an 
essential contribution to the prevention of accidents.

Our enhanced technology in passive vehicle safety 
has also led to the latest BMW 3 Series and 5 Series 
 sedans achieving top marks in consumer tests world-
wide, thereby setting new standards in their classes.

Moreover, the BMW Group is already researching 
 topics for which we are only likely to receive answers 
in the longer term. These include, for instance, safety 
questions that may only present themselves when a 

far greater number of hybrid and electric cars are on 
the road.

Operational risks
Production
Production interruptions represent a major risk for the 
BMW Group, due to the potential scale of their impact. 
Apart from hazards posed by the elements (such as 
fire or flooding), power supply and IT breakdowns, pro-
duction interruptions can also be caused by logistical 
problems (such as the failure of a supplier to deliver). 
Precautionary measures are therefore incorporated in 
production and logistics structures to make provision 
for such eventualities, both in terms of likelihood of oc-
currence and loss impact. These measures include the 
use of firewalls, sprinkler systems and auxiliary power 
supplies.

The flexible nature of our production network and 
working time models also generally help to reduce opera-
tional risks. The assessment of both environmental 
and social risks when selecting new production sites is 
also an important factor in minimising risk. Risks aris-
ing from business interruption and loss of produc-
tion due to acts of God are insured up to economically 
reasonable levels with insurance companies that enjoy 
a good credit standing.

Purchasing
The customary distribution of tasks between manufac-
turers and suppliers within the automotive sector 
 creates economic benefits, but also exposes contracting 
parties to a certain degree of mutual dependence. As 
part of a policy of preventative risk management imple-
mented within the purchasing function, suppliers are 
assessed for technical competence on the one hand and 
financial strength on the other, during both the develop-
ment and production phases of our vehicles. Suppliers’ 
risks at a local level also play an increasingly important 
role in the context of decision-making. As part of our 
catalogue of procedures, for instance, we also assess the 
extent to which supplier sites are exposed to natural 
hazards, such as floods or earthquakes, thus reducing 
our exposure to parts supply risks.

Sustainability plays a crucial role in all of our purchas-
ing activities and is taken into consideration when 
 developing environmental, social and governance 
standards. In this context, we manage sustainability 
risks using a systematic three-stage risk management 
approach, comprising risk filters, modularly designed 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
