General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
Duty of Vigilance Steering Committee
Composition
Chair He
Permanent members 1 re
- S
-
-
- P
- E
- R
- R
- P
- L
Specialists as r
This list is open-ended
Planning and coordination
The Duty of Vigilance Steering Committee meets once a month in norma
Before September 2022, a select committee met 9 times for the creation
Between September and December 2022, the Duty of Vigilance steering
Responsibilities
Missions
Strategy - Definition of the strategic prio
- Monitor indicators, including
compliance).
Priorities - Roadmap decision, direction a
- Prepare interventions in Ethics
Oversight - Examine action underway and
- Define the next steps.
The results of the Vigilance Plan are presented once a year to the
referred to the Board of Management (BoM: Group Executive Co
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
02
d of Sustainable Development
resentative from each of the following departments:
stainable Development Department;
uman Resources Department;
SEE Department (Health, Safety, Environment, Ergonomics);
evention and Protection Department;
hics Department;
sk Management Department;
sponsible Purchasing Department;
blic Affairs Department;
gal Department.
quired
circumstances.
f the body: 4 times in 2021 and 5 times in 2022.
ommittee met in plenary 4 times.
Details of duties
ities for the Vigilance Plan.
he IMCR (indicator tracking maturity with regard to regulatory
d progress monitoring.
and Compliance Committee meetings.
results to date.
Ethics and Compliance Committee. Salient issues may be
mittee) for information or for decision.
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 163

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
2.3 Our enviro
commitme
2.3.1 Management of e
EFPD7 EFPD7a
2.3.1.1. Renault Group environmental
There is now a consensus on the magnitude of environment
challenges and the urgency of finding solutions. Thes
challenges profoundly affect all economic activities an
notably mobility. Beyond the expectations of the stakeholder
regarding the transport sector, the ability of Renault Group t
propose innovative solutions also provides new economi
opportunities and boosts competitiveness.
The automotive industry needs to address majo
environmental issues:
● climate change related to greenhouse gas emissions, fo
which the Paris COP 21 agreement has plotted a
ambitious reduction path;
RENAULT GROUP E
CO
CREATING VALUE PREVENTING AND
Contribute to the creation of new REDUCING
sources of income and profit Prevent and continuously
through innovative mobility reduce the environmental
solutions and circular economy footprint of activities, servi
activities, contribute to the and products throughout
competitiveness and protection their lifecycle.
of tangible and intangible assets.
Climate change and
energy efficiency
Biodiversity
and ecosystems
164 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
mental
t
vironmental issues
olicy EFPD7
l ● resources, the limited availability of which implies
changing modes of production and use;
● health, a major concern (particularly in cities), which
requires reduction of pollutant emissions;
● global biodiversity loss caused by human-induced
pressures on ecosystems.
To meet these challenges, Renault Group has had an
environmental policy since the late 1990s. It applies
throughout the vehicle lifecycle, from design to end of life,
and is fully in line with the company’s strategic plan (see
figure below).
VIRONMENTAL POLICY
MITMENTS
STEERING ENGAGING AND
COMMUNICATING
Implement environmental
management across the Group Ensure transparent and
and throughout the value chain responsible communication
es in order to ensure continuous and stakeholder dialogue.
improvement and compliance
with regulations and voluntary
commitments.
Resources and competitive
circular economy
CTION
IELDS
Health and
substances
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
The “Renaulution” strategic plan, launched in January
2021, thus opened a new era for the Group: it will
guarantee its sustainable profitability and respect for its
new ambition to achieve carbon neutrality in Europe by
2040 and worldwide by 2050.
At the 2021 General Meeting, the Group announced its new
sustainability strategy, one of the three pillars of which is
the environment, “Green as a Business” The strategy
defines two major environmental priorities: reducing
greenhouse gas emissions and accelerating the circular
economy.
The climate strategy, also announced at the 2021 General
Meeting, provides for an action plan up to 2030 from
upstream to downstream of the value chain, from the
supply of materials and components to the end of life of l
vehicles. As vehicle use is responsible for more than 80%
of the Group’s carbon footprint, this phase of the product
lifecycle is the priority of the climate plan.
For each area of action, the Group has defined monitoring
indicators, specific targets and action plans. These are
detailed in chapter 2.3.2 of this document.
The restructuring and reorganization announcements of
November 8, 2022, will allow the creation of entities each
dedicated to an ESG challenge: Ampere for
2.3.1.2. Governance of environmental issu
BOARD OF DIR
STRATEGY AND SUSTAINABLE AUDIT AND RISK
DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE (CAR)
BOARD OF MAN
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT RISK & COMPLIANCE
GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE
STRATEGY AND BUSINESS
DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
GROUP SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
STEERING COMMITTEE
OPERATIONAL DE
CLIMATE CONTR
INDUSTRY PURCHASE ENGINEERING
Supervision of the environmental strategy (including
The board of directors oversees the definition and I
implementation of the Group’s environmental strategy
and the associated risks and opportunities. Each year, the
board examines issues related to climate change, Renault
Group’s strategy on greenhouse gas emissions, the
electrification of its product range and the impact of new
regulations on greenhouse gas emissions and pollutants.
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
ecarbonization and the just transition to all-electric, 02
ower for decarbonization via alternative fuels and green
ydrogen, THE FUTURE IS NEUTRAL for conserving
esources and creating short auto-to-auto loops.
he transformation of the Flins plant into the Refactory,
urope’s first circular economy plant dedicated to
obility, is emblematic of the Group’s vision: to rely on a
omplete recycling and remanufacturing industrial
cosystem that is both a response to the environmental
hallenge, particularly for the most strategic or critical
aterials, and an economic asset that generates
evenues and profits.
astly, the creation of the Mobilize brand, which aims to
evelop mobility, data and energy services, is another
ver for the Group’s transformation, creating
nvironmental and societal value through its electric
hared-mobility solutions and battery services.
The Group’s environmental policy is a pillar of our
ngagement and responsible capitalism and is core to its
ransformation and its raison d’être, which combine
conomic and environmental performance”
Jean-Dominique Senard, Chairman, and Luca de Meo,
hief Executive Officer, April 2021).
s EFPD7a
CTORS
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE
GEMENT
PRODUCT PLANNING GROUP CAPEX & ALLOCATION
COMMITTEE #1 COMMITTEE
PRODUCT DEPARTMENT
PRODUCT PLANNING DEPARTMENT
CAFX AND DECARBONIZATION
COMMITTEE
ARTMENTS
BUTORS
HUMAN
DIGITAL ...
RESOURCES
climate) by the Board of Directors
order to strengthen governance on these issues, the
oard of directors created a specialized committee in
019 whose duties include conducting an in-depth
xamination of environmental issues: the Ethics and CSR
ommittee. In 2021, it was decided to combine this
ommittee with the Strategy Committee, as
nvironmental, social and governance issues are an
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 165

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
integral part of the Group’s strategy. In 2022, this ne
Strategy and CSR Committee was renamed the Strateg
and Sustainability Committee.
This Strategy and Sustainability Committee is made up o
60% independent directors, in accordance with th
recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. It met fiv
times in 2022, with an attendance rate of 97.1% of it
members.
In 2022, the Strategy and Sustainability Committe
examined the following topics in particular:
● the Group's strategy in terms of social, societal an
environmental responsibility;
● monitoring and implementation of the "Renaulution
Strategic Plan;
● regular monitoring of all the Group's priority strategi
projects;
● the strategy and development of the circular econom
activity;
● the development of “ReKnow University” to support th
development of mobility professions;
● the development of partnerships with Nissan o
concrete operational projects covering market
vehicles and technologies;
● the impact and mitigation plans of the semiconducto
crisis;
● the electric vehicle value chain strategy;
● the Group's decarbonization strategy and the review o
its climate report;
● the used vehicle strategy;
● commercial vehicle strategy
● strategic trends in Latin America;
● the Alpine brand strategy;
● the performance of partnerships and the Group's ne
“horizontal strategy” of cooperation with the variou
players in its ecosystem;
● the objectives in terms of gender diversity in th
governing bodies and
● the review of Chapter 2 “Sustainable Development” o
the 2021 Universal Registration Document, including th
non-financial performance statement (EFPD).
For more details on the activity report of the Strategy an
Sustainability Committee, see Chapter 3.1.6.3 of th
Company's 2022 Universal Registration Document.
Management of climate objectives
by the Board of Management and the Strategy
and Business Development Department
The Leadership Team (formerly BoM) and the Strateg
and Business Development Department steer the Group’
environmental objectives. The focuses of th
environmental policy are discussed once a year an
arbitrated within the BoM on the proposal of the Directo
of Strategy and Business Development. For this purpos
the BoM relies on the Group Sustainable Developmen
166 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
Committee. The areas of authority of the members of this
Committee, particularly in sustainable development, are
detailed in section 3.1.3.
The Strategy and Business Development Department is
responsible for preparing, deploying and monitoring the
implementation of the environmental policy in all sectors
of the company throughout its value chain and for each
stage in the lifecycle of its vehicles. To do this, it relies on a
network of correspondents deployed in all the company's
functions, as well as on the areas of expertise. These were
created in 2010 within the Group in areas such as “energy,
environment and raw materials strategy,” “vehicle CO”
2
and “air quality and substances.” The experts who make
up these teams provide in-depth knowledge of strategic
issues and an approach recognized internally for its rigor,
neutrality and cross-disciplinary nature.
The roll-out of the environmental component of the
strategic plan by the Strategy and Business Development
Department thus covers all of Renault Group’s activities
and supports its development of new products and
services.
Compensation criteria linked
,
to the achievement of environmental
commitments
In light of the importance of climate issues for the Group,
the compensation of the executive corporate officer
includes, since 2013, a criterion related to respect for the
environment and aimed at “leadership in environmental
performance: CO emissions of vehicles in Europe, Renault
2
Group carbon footprint.” More recently, on the
recommendation of the Governance and Compensation
Committee, the board of directors proposed a change to
the compensation policy for the Chief Executive Officer by
adding criteria relating to:
● meeting the European regulatory target for passenger
car CO emissions (CAFE standards1);
2
● reducing the carbon footprint of Renault Group
passenger cars and utility vehicles registered worldwide.
In 2022 and 2023, the compensation policy regarding the
Chief Executive Officer has changed to include new
environmental criteria:
● a criterion relating to the number of used vehicles
reconditioned at Flins (in the annual variable
compensation);
● a criterion relating to the development of the circular
economy activity (in the annual variable compensation);
● a criterion related to the Group’s electrified passenger
vehicle sales mix in Europe over cumulative periods of
three years (in the performance action plan);
● a criterion related to the reduction of kg of CO 2 emitted
per vehicle produced in Europe over cumulative periods
of 3 years (in the co-investment plan).
(For further details on the remuneration elements of the
, Chief Executive Officer, see chapters 3.2.2.2 and 3.2.4.2 of
this Registration Document).
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
2.3.1.3. Environmental management syst
TARGET
METRICS AND TARGETS
SET
Product Make available on request(1) the life cycle 2016
analyzes of each new model marketed in
Europe with their critical review by an
independent expert
Manufacturing Conduct annual audits of 100% of 2003
manufacturing sites and the main tertiary
and logistic sites of Renault Group on the
environment and risk prevention (internal
audits)
Manufacturing ISO 14001 certification of 100% of Renault 2012
Group manufacturing sites
(1) Form on the page https://www.renaultgroup.com/nos-engagements/respect-de-lenvironneme
(2) The Meyzieu site (new site in the scope) is in the process of being certified: the internal audit wa
2.3.1.3.1. Resources EFPD7b
Renault Group invests about €2.3bn in Research and
Development every year11. Most of these resources are
allocated to the development of new low-emission
vehicles, powertrains and batteries. Upstream of new
vehicle projects, between €90m and €150m are allocated
each year to research and advanced engineering12. A
significant share of this spending is earmarked for
innovations specifically aimed at reducing vehicle l
emissions (by extending the electric vehicle range), which
is a regulatory imperative, particularly in Europe. Another
share is allocated to developing services provided by
batteries (second-life use and smart charging).
2.3.1.3.2. Life Cycle Assessments
Renault is committed to measuring the environmental
impacts of its vehicles throughout their life cycle from one
generation to the next. Since 2004, Renault Group has
been measuring the environmental impact of its vehicles
throughout their life cycle, from the extraction of the raw
materials needed to manufacture them to their end of life.
Life Cycle Assessments (LCA) are therefore performed:
● prior to the vehicle design process, to analyze the
potential environmental impact and benefits of
technological innovations;
● after the design process, to confirm and measure the
reduction of environmental impacts from one
generation of vehicles to another.
At end-2022, 25 models representing 78% of the Group’s
global passenger car sales under the Renault, Dacia, Alpine
and RSM (Renault Samsung Motors) brands were thus
subjected to a complete LCA. Starting with the launch of
Twingo III in September 2014, all new models are subjected to a
comparative LCA with respect to their predecessor. Each of
these LCAs is subjected to a critical review by an independent
expert following the ISO 14040 and ISO 14044 standards, to
evaluate, firstly, the methodology used and, secondly, all of the
11 See section 5.1, 2022 Earnings Report
12 €95m in 2022
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
m EFPD7a EFPD7b
02
STATUS
DEADLINE TARGET
AT YEAR-END 2022
Continuous 100% LCA of Twingo III, Megane IV,
of new models Scenic IV, Kadjar, Talisman,
Espace V, Fluence Z.e., Duster II,
Zoe and Captur completed with
critical review
Continuous 100% 100% (1)
2023 100% 100% (2)
t/
conducted in 2022, and the external audit is scheduled for the first half of 2023.
alculations and interpretations performed. The LCA reports
or new models and their critical review are available on
equest.
or further methodological details, please refer to
ection 2.6.1.2.
he graph below presents the results of the comparative
fe cycle analysis of the 1st generation ICE Captur, the
nd generation ICE Captur and the Captur Plug-in Hybrid
E-Tech,” in the form of a norming comparison. Norming
onsists of measuring the relative weight of the impacts
f the vehicles studied in relation to the global
nvironmental impacts in a reference year, relative to a
erson.
he LCA results illustrate the relevance of the Plug-in
ybrid vehicle in terms of the fight against global
arming
ver the entire life cycle, the reduction in greenhouse gas
missions is 32% for Captur E-Tech compared with 2nd
en. Captur, taking into account an average European
lectricity mix for battery charging. With the electricity
ix in France, the reduction was 53 %. The influence of the
lectricity mix used for charging on the final result is also
otable for the acidification potential indicator, with a
eduction of 34% for Captur E-Tech charged with the
rench electricity mix, compared with Captur E-Tech
harged with the average European mix.
otential depletion of mineral resources
he indicator of potential depletion of mineral resources
hows a negative impact related to the manufacture of
he electrified vehicle traction battery. To meet this
hallenge, the Group is investing in the circular economy:
articipating in the development of new solutions for
ecycling active battery materials, thus helping to reduce
he need for virgin materials (see quantified, dated
argets in section 2.3.2.2).
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 167

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
LCA Comparison of CAPTUR 1st Gen, CAPT
100 %
80 %
60 %
40 %
20 %
0 %
Climate Fossil resource Mineral re
change depletion deplet
potential potential poten
Captur E-Tech Captur (2e gen.) 1.3 TCE E
2.3.1.3.3. Action at all stages of the lifecycl
Renault Group’s Environmental Management Syste
(EMS) applies to the various stages in a vehicle’s lifecycl
from design to end-of-life recycling.
This EMS and the associated actions are detailed in thi
section and in section 2.3.2.
168 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
R 2nd Gen, and CAPTUR E-Tech
ource Eutrophication Acidification Photochemical
on potential potential ozone creation
ial potential
C Captur (1e gen.) 1.3 TCE EDC European citizen (EU 28 average)
For easier understanding and reading, the stages of the
, lifecycle have been divided into four main phases:
● design;
● manufacture;
● use and
● end of life.
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
Symbols such as the one below will be used in this section and
identify visually which of the four lifecycle phases the text is ref
center of each symbol: EMS, CO, materials, waste, water, air, healt
2
Design:
• Design of the veh
• Materials and s
DESI
Vehicle end-of-life : E
F
• Collection of end-of-life vehicles (ELV) I
L
• ELV dismantling
F
• ELV parts and materials sorting O THE
and dispatch for reuse,
D
recycling or recovery N
E
U
Vehicle us
• Sale and after-sales
• Spare parts (new, re
• Vehicle use by
• Fuel (or electrici
2.3.1.3.4. Environmental skills
and training
SME
Plant employees receive workstation training, including
environmental aspects, particularly chemical risks arising
from handling, storage and spills, and the sorting of waste.
In the majority of plants, this training is done through a specific
Dojo (workshop) and involves a hands-on approach to waste
Fresque du Climat
Launched in 2021, the deployment of the “Fresque du Climat” among em
with 571 people trained. These educational workshops based on coll
This training is a permanent Group training opportunity and has been in
2.3.1.3.5. Environmental management
system in the plants
i
In 2022, the industrial environment network will be made
up approximately 280 members spread over 12 countries
and 42 sites. Environmental management in Renault
Group plants is underpinned by four pillars:
13 The Meyzieu site (new site in the scope) is in the process of being certified. The i
the first half of 2023.
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
ntil the end of chapter 2.3 in order to allow the reader to
rring to. The topic or impact discussed is indicated in the
02
, soil, noise or biodiversity.
cle and its parts
pplier selection
N
P
R
O Vehicle production:
D • Materials (raw or recycled)
E U • Supply chain
C
• Parts and vehicle logistic
T
OI • Renault Group plants
N
E
phase:
maintenance, etc.)
ovated or reused)
he customer
y) production)
anagement practices and the handling of chemical
roducts in day-to-day activities. In addition, educational and
wareness-raising activities on environmental protection
egularly take place through internal communication
hannels or through weekly team meetings.
mployees in positions requiring specific environmental
xpertise have access to training associated with their
ctivity, provided in the form of internal training modules
.g. training for ISO 14001 auditors or design-for-recycling) or
hrough a specialized external organization if a specific area
f expertise is required. Renault employees in France also
ave access to eco-driving training.
loyees of Renault Group’s Ile-de-France sites continued in 2022
ctive intelligence aim to raise awareness of climate change.
luded in the 2023 plan.
. Continuous improvement based on ISO 14001
tarting in 1995, Renault began systematically
plementing an environmental management approach
t its sites, along with a drive for continuous improvement,
ased on ISO 14001. This was done to reduce
nvironmental impact and ensure regulatory compliance.
ince 2008, 100% of Renault Group’s industrial sites13 and
he nine main engineering and logistics facilities have
een ISO 14001-certified.
ternal audit was carried out in 2022 and the external audit is scheduled for
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 169

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
2. Group-wide tools and standards
In order to control these main environmental risks, a
required by the French vigilance law, Renault Group ha
developed a tool called “Mandatory Rules Environment.
This assessment tool, deployed starting in 2021, can b
used to identify and prioritize environmental risks (se
2.2.4.1. “Environment” paragraph).
Industrial standards covering all areas related to th
environment define the minimum requirements that appl
to the Group’s sites (see “Eco-design of industri
processes” paragraph below). These ensure that practice
are standardized and reflect and adhere to the Company’
policies and objectives in terms of the environment, n
matter in which country the plants are located, in particula
when the plants are not subject to a binding regulator
framework. The “Mandatory Rules Environment” to
highlights the key points of these standards.
This is particularly important in countries without
stringent regulatory framework. For environment
management and the handling of chemicals, the sites ca
also rely on the availability of standardized tool
managed by expert functions. These tools include:
● an expert system called Écorisques, available worldwid
in the main languages used within the Group. The syste
determines and ranks the environmental impact fro
activities and potential hazards in relation to the plant
chemical risk and prioritizes them in the plant
environmental action plan;
● a reporting system for environmental impacts an
energy consumption (R2E);
● a CHEMIS (Chemical Information System) databas
available in the main languages used within the Grou
for the management of hazardous substances and th
prevention of chemical risks. CHEMIS is the key tool i
Renault Group chemical risk management proces
which aims, from both environmental and healt
standpoints, to introduce chemicals safely, to preven
the risks associated with their use, and to anticipat
technological and regulatory changes (see 2.3.2.3.2);
● a process to monitor and track compliance with nation
and EU environmental legislation;
● a documentary database of Environmental standard
and best practices, accessible from any Group site.
3. Eco-design of industrial processes
Renault’s industrial projects are designed according to
development strategy punctuated by milestones. At thes
milestones, each business line checks that the projec
170 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
complies with the defined rules and verifies convergence
with the other business lines. The HSEE Department is part
of this Group approach.
With regard to the environment, the project must be
designed in such a way that the site hosting it is able to
comply with the mandatory rules described in the
Environmental Mandatory Rules. These rules define the
minimum requirements applicable to all the Group’s sites,
bearing in mind that if local regulatory requirements are
l more demanding, these take precedence. To achieve this
objective, the Group also relies on the new methodological
tool currently being deployed, the “HSEE in projects”
Mandatory Rules described in paragraph 2.2.3.
For example, acoustic emission modeling was carried out
for equipment to be installed in 2023 at the Flins site.
l These models made it possible to take into account the
configuration of the planned site (with walls capable of
reflecting sounds) and to challenge the supplier to ensure
l that noise levels towards the neighborhood would be
compliant from the first day of operation of the future
equipment.
To complement this shared base of minimum
requirements applicable to all Group projects,
technological innovations may be introduced according
to constraints or opportunities related to the local
’ environment. This is the case, for example, of the “Nickel-
’ Free” technological innovation described in
paragraph 2.3.2.4.2.
4. Environmental management system audits
Since the end of the 1990s, the Group has used internal
, environmental audits at all of its industrial facilities as well
, as its main engineering and logistics facilities in order to
monitor the implementation of ISO 14001 requirements,
and especially the compliance with its own internal
, standards for the protection of the environment. These
complement the external audits performed annually by a
certified independent body.
Internal audits are therefore conducted by members of the
industrial environmental network (environmental managers
l and business specialists), using joint audits that encourage
exchanges of best practice between plants and stimulate
improvements in environmental performance.
As of end-2022, the network had 53 internal environmental
auditors who were specifically trained and qualified in
accordance with ISO 14001 and knowledge of the various
environmental topics. Each new auditor embarks on a
progressive skills development path until eventually
becoming an audit manager.
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
2.3.2 Priority areas for ac
strategy and indica
EFPD7a EFPD8 EFP
EFPD11 EFPD12 EFP
2.3.2.1. Climate and energy efficiency EFP
2.3.2.1.1. Governance of climate issues
Refer to section 2.3.1.2. The governance of climate issues
takes place within the framework of the governance of all
environmental issues. i
I
2.3.2.1.2. Strategy and Action Plan
EFPD11c EFPD12b EFPD12c
In 2019, Renault Group was the first carmaker to have
decarbonization targets validated with the Science
Based-Targets (SBTi) initiative.
In April 2021, Renault Group published its Climate Plan.
It is broken down into nine major actions over the entire
lifecycle of vehicles described below. They will be
gradually rolled out across the Group until 2030, an interim
milestone toward our ambition of carbon neutrality in
Europe by 2040 and worldwide by 2050. In addition to the
nine actions, the Group has tools and processes to
manage risks and opportunities.
2.3.2.1.2.1. Actions on the vehicle usage
phase – Scope 3 Downstream
In 2022, the vehicle usage phase accounts for more than
80% of Renault Group’s carbon footprint 14.
Action #1:
Electrify 100% of new
Renault passenger car
models by 2025
An internal combustion engine (ICE) vehicle in Europe
emits 3 times more COe in its lifecycle than an electric
2
vehicle 15. j
EU Member States must implement national energy and
climate plans (NECP) guaranteeing their contribution to
achieving the EU’s climate and energy goals. As part of this
14 Use and fuels and electricity required for use. See carbon footprint in 2.3.2.1.3.
15 Source: Transport & Environment (T&E) 2020.
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
ion:
02
ors
9 EFPD10
13 EFPD16a
11c EFPD12a EFPD12b EFPD12c
ffort, they are phasing out the sale of ICE vehicles (by 2030
or the United Kingdom and by 2040 at the latest for France).
urthermore, the UN predicts that two thirds of the world’s
opulation will be urban by 2050, and cities are already
creasingly restricting access for ICE cars.
order to achieve its target of electrifying 100% of new
odels of Renault passenger cars by 2025 in Europe, the
ompany is:
Pooling production across three platforms: CMF-B and
CMF-EV (for electric vehicles), CMF-CD;
Establishing “Renault ElectriCity” in northern France,
which will be the largest, most competitive electric
vehicle production center in Europe;
Launching 7 electric models under the Renault brand,
including 2 C-segment models. Two electric models were
launched in 2022: Megane and Kangoo EV;
Accelerating electrification by shortening the time to
develop a new vehicle by 25%.
he Renault brand’s ambition is to have electric vehicles
epresent nearly 90% of its passenger vehicle sales in
urope by 2030.
o support this acceleration, Mobilize Power Solutions, a
enault Group subsidiary specializing in customized
echarging solutions for electric and plug-in hybrid
ehicles, is simplifying the transition to electric mobility
or professionals and private individuals. Today, Mobilize
ower Solutions is present in 11 key European electric
obility markets: Spain, Portugal, France, Germany, the
nited Kingdom, Switzerland, Austria, Belgium,
etherlands, Italy, and Luxembourg.
rom advice to installation to the operation and
aintenance of charging stations, Mobilize Power
olutions supports its customers for their recharging
eeds at work, at home, and on the move, including long
urneys, thanks to the Mobilize Fast Charge network,
eveloped in partnership with Renault network dealers. By
id-2024, 200 stations are expected to be deployed in
urope.
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 171

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
Mobilize, the brand dedicated to new mobility an
services around vehicles, is also developing many othe
services to facilitate the adoption of electric mobility:
● Mobilize Smart Charge: optimize charging costs an
reduce carbon footprints
Announcement of the creation of Ampere
With Ampere, Renault Group is creating an autonomo
from a vehicle manufacturer. Ampere will develop, ma
SDV (Software Defined Vehicle) technology under the
know-how and assets of the Group with the focus and a
Action #2:
Become a European leader
in hydrogen-powered light
commercial vehicles by 2025
With models such as Kangoo, Trafic and Master, Renault i
a European leader in light commercial vehicles (LCVs).
The very strong growth of this market and the tightenin
of diesel standards have led the Group to develop electri
versions for these models.
Today, the aim is to improve performance in terms o
range and charging speed for heavy-duty use.
To extend the range of the electric vehicle withou
increasing the size of the battery, or even by reducing i
hydrogen fuel cell technology (Dual Power) provide
additional zero-emission energy. In addition to chargin
at electric stations, vehicles can be charged wit
hydrogen in just a few minutes.
In June 2021, Renault and Plug Power launched a joint ventur
called Hyvia to offer a global hydrogen solution providing:
● commercial vehicles with a range of 400 kilometer
(WLTP standard) and reduced charging time (less tha
5 minutes);
● complete turnkey solutions for fuel cell commerci
vehicles: charging stations, supply of green hydroge
from decarbonized energy.
HYVIA has set a target of achieving a 30% share of th
European hydrogen LCV market by 2030. Its first vehicle
have been approved, and major customers have wante
to test the Hydrogen technology with HYVIA’s firs
production vehicles: Chronopost, Engie, Orange, Equan
Alpine F1 Team (in France), Airbus, Port of Hambur
Packeta, and Maximator Hydrogen GmbH (in Germany).
Through Hyvia, Renault Group plans to continue buildin
strong partnerships in the field of hydrogen. With FOVI
since the end of 2021, the Group has been developin
hydrogen tanks for light commercial vehicles. In additio
on the basis of collaborative projects, Renault Group wi
develop solutions integrating all public and private player
in the production and distribution of energy.
In addition to mobility, Hyvia will offer fuel cell and chargin
solutions, manufactured in Flins, France, to other industries.
16 According to an internal study conducted in 2019 based on data share
172 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
● Mobilize Charge Pass: a single card for recharging at
more than 260,000 charging points in Europe
● Mobilize Visa Card: finance the installation of a home
recharging solution, facilitate recharging on the move and
accumulate credit that can be put towards any purchase.
s entity that will be the first electric and software pure player
ufacture, and sell fully electric passenger cars with advanced
enault brand. Ampere will bring the best of both worlds: the
ility of a pure player in electric vehicles (see section 1.1.2).
Action #3:
Deploy hybrid technologies
across all brands
Renault Group is developing low-emission engines
(E-Tech hybrid and gas) to complement its offer of electric
vehicles.
Developed exclusively, the E-Tech hybrid technology
reduces the fuel consumption of a hybrid engine by 40%
compared with an equivalent internal combustion engine
in urban cycle. Its E-Tech plug-in hybrid version delivers a
zero-emission mobility solution.
Acceleration of the E-Tech hybrid offering:
,
● launch of a new hybrid model by the Renault brand in
2022 (Austral) in addition to the three in 2021 (Captur,
Arkana, and Megane Saloon);
● target: 35% Renault hybrid vehicle sales in 2025;
● deploying new technologies to further reduce hybrid
vehicle emissions: connectivity, eco-driving and a 100%
electric mode to enable access to low-emission zones.
Additional action:
Introduce eco-driving aids
l
Consumption by vehicles is approved according to
standardized cycles that are representative of usage but
do not cover all driving styles (more or less aggressive) or
all real driving conditions (use of heating or air
,
conditioning, urban or rural areas, traffic flow, etc.). For an
,
electric vehicle, the same reasoning can be applied to
electricity consumption and range. (See appendix 2.6.1.7
Emission standards applicable to passenger cars in the
European Union).
Under favorable driving and temperature conditions, a
,
driver with an economical driving style (an “eco” driver)
l
can achieve the same fuel consumption as a WLTP cycle,
which is up to 25% less than an “average” driver. A
“dynamic” customer can consume up to 40 % more than
the “average” driver and 70 % more than an “eco” driver16.
by nearly 5,000 customers via telematics.
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
To help its customers reduce their fuel or electricity
consumption in real driving conditions, Renault Group has
been offering eco-driving assistance systems since 2012.
These fall into two categories: delegative and
constructive, adapted to the main driver profiles.
l
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
/ Delegative systems or active assistance.
hese systems perform all or part of the driving tasks. 02
he first two generations of systems, becoming more
idespread today, limit consumption by selecting “Eco
ode”, which acts on:
reduction of acceleration capabilities under certain
conditions;
maximum speed limitation for electric vehicles;
efficient management of thermal comfort.
he third-generation technologies, launched on Megane
-Tech and Austral in 2021, can also take full charge of
ertain tasks for more energy-efficient driving: eco and
redictive cruise control, adjustment to terrain, speed
mitations, traffic density, etc.
/ Participatory systems.
hey make drivers active in their “eco-driving” by
roviding information to help them to consume less fuel or
lectricity. Renault Group offers several types:
“Eco Coach”: the system displays real-time information
on the vehicle’s operation on the dashboard (rev
counter for internal combustion vehicles, power meter
for electric vehicles, instantaneous and average
consumption) and eco-driving aids (gear change, lift
foot off accelerator to anticipate, optimal speed to
reach a green light, etc.);
“Eco Score”: the system evaluates the driving style;
drivers become aware of their level of eco-driving and
their potential for improvement.
/ Gamification and rewards
otivation is essential for sustainable behavioral change,
o gamification tools based on challenge and reward are
ffective levers to encourage users of Renault Group
ehicles to adopt eco-driving:
“Eco Challenge” (“Reward”): the system analyses past
journeys to generate advice on how to optimize future
journeys; the driver can self-assess and compare with
others. This function belongs to generation 4 and will be
available on smartphones and computers for both
private customers and fleet asset managers.
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 173

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
Encouraging behavioral change towards e
SCORING : RE
illustrate fuel savings
through a good score 5
SCORING :
raise awareness of potential
eco-driving savings through 1 S
a driving-style assessment
COACHING :
help the driver improve
his or her score 2 C
COACHING :
help the driver adopt eco- and 3 A
safe-driving habits
The table below details the content of the various type
technologies. Starting in 2023, this content will be su
customers toward safer, more energy-efficient driving.
Generation 1
2012-2015
Eco-Assist Eco mode with limitation
of acceleration
Eco-coach Gear Shift Indicator,
Driving Style Indicator
Eco-score Multimedia systems:
R-Link (top of range),
Medianav (entry range)
Reward
Energy consumption 0-5%
reduction potential (1)
(1)Depending on the driving style of each customer (economic, dynamic a
Beyond 2025, generation 4 innovations will complete the r
Action #4:
Increase the rate of use
of vehicles by at least 20%
through shared mobility
A personal car is actually in use only 10% of the time an
loses half of its value in just three years. With thi
knowledge, some users are seeking to reduce the overa
cost of their travel and turning to new mobility solutions.
174 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
o-driving
The interaction of different eco-driving
aids creates a sustainable
eco-virtuous experience
ARD
REWARD :
6 encourage drivers to adopt
eco-driving habits by highlighting
fuel savings
ORE
ASSIST :
4 via the assistance functions,
help the driver adopt eco-driving h abits
and improve his or her score
ACH
SIST
of eco-driving aids and their evolution over the generations of
plemented with a simultaneous Safe & Eco feature to guide
Generation 2 Generation 3
2016-2021 2022-2025
Eco mode with limitation of Eco mode with limitation of
acceleration, speed (EV) and acceleration, speed (EV), thermal
themal comfort comfort, and eco distribution for
cruise control (contextual and
adaptive)
Eco-experience on the Eco monitor
dashboard,
Accel Pedal Off Indicator for thermal
New Driving Style Indicator vehicles
Multimedia systems: Multimedia system:
RLink2 then Easy Link OpenR Link
Consumption history feature
Eco-challenge for fleets: “Mobilize
Fleet Connect”
2-6% 3-12%
d intermediate styles).
nge of eco-driving aids.
One of these is shared mobility, which optimizes the use of
a car and reduces the number of vehicles in circulation, as
well as their environmental impact.
With regard to road transport, 25% of greenhouse gases
are emitted during the “last mile”, i.e. during delivery to the
end customer.
Mobilize was created in particular to meet these
challenges: to move from the model based on ownership
l
to a model based on use with 100% electric vehicles,
designed for a specific use. The brand offers a wide range
of vehicle-related services (VaaS, Vehicle as a Service)
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
thanks to an integrated technological platform: financing,
insurance, payments, fleet management, energy,
maintenance and reconditioning. These services, grouped
together in a single offer, meet the needs of individuals,
fleets and mobility operators. The car is no longer just an
object that allows you to move from point A to point B, but
also a service platform.
Vehicles are only available by subscription in a vehicle
and associated services package. They are not for sale!
The very first range includes:
● Limo: a sedan for the transport of people and intended
for taxis and private-hired vehicle;
● Duo: a quadricycle for the transport of people and
intended for individuals and professionals (company
fleets, car-sharing and micro-mobility operators);
● Bento, based on Duo, for the transport of small goods
and intended for professionals (craftspeople, traders);
● future vehicles for last-mile delivery and intended for
professionals.
Based on Mobilize Financial Services and built around
open ecosystems (start-ups, etc.), Mobilize promotes a
sustainable energy transition and new types of mobility.
2.3.2.1.2.2. Manufacturing actions –
Scope 1+2 and Scope 3 Upstream
Action #5:
Accelerate the deployment
of more efficient, low-carbon,
reusable batteries
According to the French agency for ecological transition
(ADEME), producing the battery of an electric car
accounts for a third of its carbon footprint due to the use
of electricity from fossil fuels and the extraction of
strategic raw materials such as cobalt and lithium.
Starting in 2024, the European Union will require battery
manufacturers to measure this footprint over a battery’s
lifecycle, from production to recycling. A European draft
regulation plans to set a maximum carbon footprint
threshold for batteries put on the market by 2027.
I
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
enault Group intends to accelerate the deployment of
ore efficient, low-carbon, reusable batteries by acting
02
n their entire lifecycle:
Low-carbon battery production: in association with
suppliers, reduce the carbon footprint of battery
production by using decarbonized energy and materials.
Renault Group aims to reduce the carbon footprint of
the new R5’s battery by 20% by 2025 compared with the
Zoe’s battery in 2019. The reduction is expected to reach
35 % in 2030. In this respect, Renault Group has signed
three agreements with material suppliers since 2021:
with Terrafame for sustainable nickel sourcing (low
carbon and traceability of the entire supply chain), with
Vulcan for less carbon-intensive lithium in 2021 and with
Managem for low-carbon cobalt sulfate produced in
Morocco in 2022. This is in addition to the agreements
with Verkor and Envision-Aesc to produce the batteries
in France by 2025.
Maintenance: deployment of battery repair centers
during their first life (around a hundred operate as of the
end of 2022, including a center of expertise and repair
within the Flins Refactory). Launch of an offering of
second-hand batteries for the repair of electric vehicles.
Second life: repurposing batteries for the stationary
storage of renewable energy, mobile solutions (boats,
cooling systems, airport machinery). In 2022, production
will start at Flins of stationary systems produced as part
of Renault Group’s partnership with “Betteries,” a start-
up specializing in the recovery and use of batteries from
electric vehicles. Betteries uses recycled EV batteries to
develop transportable electric generators suitable for a
variety of purposes (e.g. on construction sites or in food
trucks). These systems are assembled at the Flins
Refactory. These second-life uses of our batteries make
it possible to avoid GHG emissions.
Recycling: closed-loop recycling of strategic materials
(cobalt, nickel, lithium) to produce new batteries. For
these three materials, Renault Group plans to reach 80 %
of recycled material reintegrated into the production of
new batteries by 2030 (closed loop).
ecycling, maintenance, repair and second-life activities
re carried out at the Refactory in Flins, France (see box in
ection 2.3.2.2).
addition to these activities, starting from the launch of
he R5 model in 2024, vehicle-to-grid (V2G) technology will
nable electric vehicles to feed energy into the power grid
o regulate peak consumption.
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 175

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
Renault Group in collaborative platforms
Since 2021, the Group has been actively contributing to
batteries as a member of the Global Battery Alliance (G
of a methodology commonly accepted by the internati
out within Recharge, which is still ongoing, is contributi
European stakeholders in line with the Paris and Fit for 5
Action #6:
Engage the entire
supply chain
Raw material extraction and parts manufacturin
account for 16% of a Group vehicle’s carbon footprint i
2022, second only to well-to-wheel emissions. Engaging a
its suppliers in active efforts to reduce their ow
environmental footprint is a priority for Renault Group’
climate strategy.
Renault Group has set a target of reducing COe/kg emission
2
in the parts and materials supply chain by 30% by 203
compared with 2019. To achieve this, Renault Group is workin
with its suppliers on six priority areas for improvement:
● Area 1: Set up a carbon footprint assessment syste
using outside surveys conducted by an accredited CD
supply chain organization.
● Area 2: Require suppliers to make CSR commitment
and have their performance assessed by an outsid
organization (see 2.2.5).
● Area 3: Identify the six highest-emitting commoditie
(materials and parts) and implement a joint action pla
with suppliers to design a lower-GHG process.
● Area 4: Co-develop a co-innovation policy to invent ne
technologies to meet future regulations and consume
expectations.
● Area 5: Increase local sourcing for production plant
Partnerships with Verkor and Envision to produc
batteries in France, as close as possible to the ElectriCit
industrial hub, from 2025.
● Area 6: Establish internal carbon pricing for the selectio
of materials and other procurement decisions (se
2.3.2.1.2.3).
In addition, in 2020, Renault Group became a signatory o
the European Raw Materials Alliance (ERMA) to foster
virtuous cycle for the supply of raw materials.
17 Retail Renault Group Ecublens
176 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
he methodological work on calculating the carbon footprint of
A) and Recharge. In particular, this work led to the publication
nal members of the GBA: the GHG Rulebook. The work carried
g to the development of the first-ever battery regulation with
% agreements.
Action #7:
Strengthening Renault Group’s
RESOURCES
circular economy leadership
In the fight against climate change, the circular economy
is an essential lever because greenhouse gas emissions
l can be avoided. The circular economy strategy and
indicators are set out in chapter 2.3.2.2 of this document
(“Resources and circular economies”).
This work includes increasing the use of recycled
materials in the manufacture of vehicles. Objective: All
new vehicles worldwide to be made with 33% recycled
materials by 2030.
Action #8:
Reduce emissions from our sites
by 80% between 2019 and 2030
(scopes 1 and 2)
In addition to the issues related to the constant increase in
the price of fossil fuels, the use of low-carbon energy and
the reduction of consumption are at the same time major
levers for the climate trajectory, levers for
competitiveness (energy savings) and levers for energy
independence in an increasingly uncertain geopolitical
environment.
. That is why it is being managed by a dedicated corporate
team, via a network of energy managers deployed across
all Group sites, according to an organization based on the
principles of ISO 50001 outlined in the diagram below. The
Group has also embarked on a global roadmap for the
certification of its industrial sites, with the first stage
covering all French sites in 2023. At end-2022, the certified
sites are Bursa, Cléon, Le Mans and Sandouville.
Since 2021, the energy-saving and controlled performance
approach has covered tertiary, logistics and distribution
sites in addition to industrial sites. For example, the
installation of solar panels on the roof of a dealership in
Switzerland17 will avoid the emission of almost 50,000
metric tons of COe per year.
2
Four drivers:
1. Industrial footprint:
More compact sites will lead to a reduction of space to be
lit and heated. The sites are continuing their overall
compaction trajectory with a target of reducing 750,000
m² of covered buildings by 2025. Of particular note in 2022
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
was the reduction of 55,000 m² at the Douai site, 40,000 m²
at the Sandouville site and 12,000 m² at the Maubeuge
site.
2. Manufacturing processes:
Development of more energy-efficient processes,
optimization of existing processes and implementation of
energy recovery systems.
3. Energy management 4.0:
Tools for analysis and management of consumption data,
with the commissioning in 2022 of a new EcoGy energy
portal connected to a network of more than 10,000
l
sensors and meters allowing real-time monitoring of
electricity consumption, gas, compressed air from all of
our sites.
This infrastructure, supported by an Energy Crisis Task
Force, made it possible to reduce energy consumption by
Energy management within Renault Group
Continuous Energy
Int
improvement policy
Management Energy
Pe
review planning
■ Monthly review
of objectives Implementation
■ Three times a year review and operation
of energy-saving initiatives
Checking
Internal
audit
■ ‘’Energy efficiency’’ audits and visits
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
5% in 2022 compared with 2021. In terms of energy
onsumption per vehicle produced, Renault Group's
02
arget is a 30% reduction by 2025 compared with 2021 and
ven a 40% reduction in the French plants.
. Renewable electricity:
arget set in 2021 to reach 100% of our sites powered by
enewable electricity in France, Spain, Slovenia and
ortugal by 2030. The progress is detailed in the box below
nd in 2.3.2.1.3.
enault Group thus aims to remain, at least until 2030,
mong the world’s top 3 manufacturers in terms of the
west greenhouse gas emissions at its industrial sites.
030 is also the target date for achieving carbon
eutrality at all European sites (2025 for sites and
ctivities related to the production of electric vehicles at
lectriCity, France).
rnal energy performance target
formance targets set for each site
t Group level:
Energy managers’ ‘’clubs’’
Sharing of best practices, recommendations, etc.
t site level:
Eco-energy workshops and brainstorming sessions
Monitoring,
measuring
and analysis
Monthly monitoring:
■ Energy performance
■ Economic performance
(costs and savings)
■ Implementation of best practices
Cases of
non compliance,
corrective actions and
preventive measures
■ Technical support to sites
■ Complementary studies
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 177

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
In 2022, actions to reduce energy consumption in all Grou
Renault Group is accelerating the decarbonization pla
partners
● Spain. In April 2021, Renault Group signed a contract
consumption in Spain with renewable energy.
● France. In November 2022, the Group announced thre
With Voltalia, the largest renewable electricity supp
●
cover up to 50% of the electricity consumption of it
of photovoltaic panels.
With the ENGIE Group, a first-of-its-kind deep geo
●
needs of the Douai factory by 2025;
With Dalkia, EDF Group, a partnership to install a
●
Maubeuge plant
Action #9:
Reduce emissions
from the transportation of parts
and vehicles by 30%
between 2019 and 2030
In 2015, Renault Group was one of the first companies t
join the FRET21 initiative. It unites the community o
shippers in efforts to reduce the carbon footprint o
freight. In 2019, the Group was awarded the EVE Trophy b
ADEME for the biggest improvement in reducing CO
2
emissions from transport and decided to commit t
FRET21 a second time (between 2019 and 2021 on a 201
baseline). The result of this second commitment was onc
again positive, with a result of -6.69% COe emissions for
2
target of -5.5%.
Today, the objective of the supply chain is to work t
further reduce the carbon footprint of transportatio
logistics platforms and its packaging.
2021-2030 action plan built on 4 pillars across the logistic
chain:
● Deployment of biogas and biofuel trucks starting in 202
and continued in 2022, followed by the deployment o
electric and hydrogen-powered trucks from 202
584 metric tons of COe have already been avoided i
2
inbound logistics thanks to the implementation o
4,650 GAS trucks (bio-CNG and CNG) with three carrier
in France. On the vehicle distribution side, 11,350 ne
vehicles were transported with 1,870 B30 trucks from th
carrier Dolotrans, for a reduction of 1,026 metric tons o
COe on a France-Romania flow.
2
● Scaling up multimodal transportation, in part b
increasing the share of rail freight. The implementatio
of trains for the distribution of vehicles has enable
3,250 metric tons of COe to be saved on flows from th
2
Shiyan factory (China) to the port of Shanghai fo
18,800 vehicles transported as well as on a Spain/Austri
flow with 920 vehicles.
● Reduction in the number of kilometers traveled pe
cubic meter of goods thanks to more optimized an
18 Scope: the reporting scope is described in Annex 2.6.1.3.
178 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
plants will have saved around €25m on the annual energy bill 18.
for its factories in France and Spain and innovating with new
with the energy supplier Iberdrola to cover 100% of its energy
major partnerships with energy players:
y contract in France. This contract will enable Renault Group to
production activities in France in 2027 through the installation
hermal project in Europe that would replace 70% of the gas
iomass boiler to replace 65% of the gas consumption at its
innovative trucks (double-decker trucks,
multipurpose trucks, etc.), the integration of a CO
2
transport criterion in new vehicle projects and the
optimization of loading. Densification actions for
parts and packaging have made it possible to avoid
the equivalent of 11,350 trucks, for a reduction of 7,000
metric tons of CO e.
2
● Rational management of packaging: reducing its
weight, returning used packaging, minimizing waste,
increasing the share of recycled material in packaging
and eventual elimination of single-use plastics.
Together, these actions have allowed more than 416,000
metric tons of COe emissions to be avoided (cumulative
2
over the 2017-2022 period).
Beyond the 2021–2030 action plan, Renault Group expects
to further avoid emissions through the development of
packaging recycling channels, both within the Group and
with its suppliers.
,
In addition, Renault Group entered into a partnership in
2018 with NEOLINE, a French start-up developing wind-
powered cargo ships. Pilot ships are planned for 2024.
, 2.3.2.1.2.3. Tools and processes in place
to manage risks and opportunities
.
Monitor the reduction of CO e emissions
2
from vehicles: CAFE Control Tower
In 2018, Renault Group created a specific program team
called the “CAFE Control Tower” to monitor the results in
Europe and oversee the roadmap each year.
Starting in 2019, the Group also developed a tool to
forecast COe levels for its registered vehicles in Europe.
2
The CAFE Control Tower reports its results to the Board of
Management (BoM) every month.
Outside Europe, the Group is subject to regulatory
standards similar to those in Europe. In total, around 70%
of the Group’s sales worldwide are thus subject to CAFE-
type regulations.
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
The strategy and organization described above enabled
the Group to achieve its CAFE Europe targets for
passenger cars and light commercial vehicles in 2022 19.
In addition, vehicle COe emissions are closely monitored
2
via the global carbon footprint KPI, and specific product
competitiveness targets are set in terms of fuel
consumption and COe emissions. The BoM reviews these
2
indicators each year to ensure their alignment with short-,
medium- and long-term strategy.
Making strategic choices
to manage GHG emissions
reduction: Internal Carbon Pricing
The Group uses an Internal Carbon Pricing (ICP)
mechanism to drive the reduction in its COe emissions
2
and internalize the economic cost of its greenhouse gas
emissions.
These internal prices apply to several types of decisions:
● For new vehicle projects, two areas of application:
decisions concerning the technological building
●
blocks that make it possible to improve the efficiency
of vehicles in the use phase. The definition of the ICP
integrates, in particular, regulations on in-use
emissions such as CAFE (i.e. €95 g CO penalties in
2
Europe); and taxation linked to CO.
2
19 These results should be consolidated and formalized by the European Commissi
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
decisions regarding vehicle materials and
●
components throughout the value chain. The
02
definition incorporates future regulatory projects
such as the CBAM in Europe (Carbon Border
Adjustment Mechanism).
For industrial facilities, the ICP takes into account
changes in the energy market and in COe emission
2
allowances. More than half of the Group's direct
emissions, i.e. 11 industrial sites, are subject to the
European Union Emissions Trading Scheme (EU-ETS).
The associated financial issues are managed through a
specific steering committee. In the context of the
European Commission's gradual phasing out of the free
allocation of EU ETS allowances, the strategy
implemented by Renault Group aims to minimize the
financial burden of the allowances in the medium and
long term through efforts to reduce energy consumption
at the sites (see above) and rigorous forward-looking
management. South Korea has also implemented an
emissions trading system since 2015, to which the Busan
manufacturing site has been subject since then. Thanks
to the emission-reduction measures undertaken before
the entry into force of these regulations, the Group did
not need to acquire additional allowances. Starting in
2021, the Giheung site is also subject to it and has also not
resorted to purchasing allowances.
hese various ICPs are revised at least once a year and
ary between €100/t COe and €200 t/COe to take
2 2
ccount of market developments and regional
pecificities.
n in the coming months.
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 179

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
2.3.2.1.3. Metrics and targets EFPD12a EFP
2.3.2.1.3.1. Objectives 20 EFPD12c
In 2022, Renault Group reached its primary commitment t
The Group’s ambition for 2050 is to achieve carbon neu
(by 2040 in Europe). To align with this goal, new interim
based on results achieved in 2019 (instead of 2010).
Metrics and targets
Reduce the carbon footprint of Renault Group vehicles sold worl
on average
See definition, scope and calculation method for Renault Group’s carbon f
Greenhouse Gas Protocol scopes 1 and 2
Starti
Metrics and targets po
Reduce carbon intensity (1) of Renault Group sites 2
(COe / vehicle produced)
2
Reduce energy intensity on Group sites
2
(MWh / vehicle produced)
Increase the share of renewables
in electricity consumed at Group sites
Increase the share of renewables in the supply of
heat to Group sites
Achieve neutrality (net zero) of Group sites(5)
(1)Direct and indirect emissions associated with energy consumption of th
scope 2 categories in the table of Renault carbon footprint categories ta
(2)2025 target in absolute value: Scopes 1+2 carbon footprint below 572,00
(3)2030 target in absolute value: Scopes 1+2 carbon footprint below 230,00
(4)This is 10% more ambitious than the previous target.
(5)Residual emissions will be offset.
(6)Reference electrical industrial center located in the North of France.
Carbon Footprint Scope 3
Metrics and targets
Well-to-wheel Reduce COe emissions
2
emissions per vehicle sold in Europe
Reduce COe emissions
2
per vehicle worldwide,
including the Lada brand
Parts and Reduce COe per kilogram of materials
2
materials
Batteries Reduce COe emissions from battery
2
manufacturing
Logistics Reduce well-to-wheel
COe emissions from logistics activities
2
(1)Between 2019 and 2022, the scope for calculating this indicator was expanded. First, i
exporting vehicles to Europe. Then, in 2022, a new manufacturing site started produc
increase in the need for breakdown services and therefore deliveries by air. On a like
emissions per vehicle of around 10 %. Renault Group remains on track to achieve the
few years (such as 40 T EV or hydrogen trucks, a more massive deployment of sail-po
should accelerate significantly starting in 2025.
20 Scope of objectives: scope described in appendix 2.6.1.3.
180 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
12c
reduce its global carbon footprint: -25% versus 2010.
rality over the entire product lifecycle everywhere in the world
ilestones to be reached by 2025 and 2030 were set in early 2021
Starting 2022 Status at
point target year-end 2022
wide
2010 -25% -25%
otprint in appendix 2.6..1.2.B.
g 2025 2030 Status at
nt interim target target year-end 2022
19 –50%(2) –80%(3) -26%(2)
-30% World -14% World
21
-40% France -7% France
– – 80%(4) 51%
– – 70% 4%
– Sites of ElectriCity(6) All sites Europe
sites divided by the total number of vehicles produced (see categories scope 1 and
le in 2.6.1.2.B).
metric tons of COe
2
metric tons of COe
2
2025 Status at
Starting interim 2030 year-
point target target end 2022
2019 -35% -65% -16%
2019 -20% -35% -12%
2019 – -30%
Zoe 2019 -20% New R5 -35% Currently
All new models not applicable
2019 – -30% per vehicle -1% (1)
2021, the Flins used vehicle plant started production, and the Shyan plant in China started
ion in Karsan, Turkey. In addition, the electronic components crisis led to a very significant
for-like basis in 2019 and excluding the effects of the component crisis, there is a reduction in
0% reduction target in 2030. Thanks to new technologies that will become available in the next
ered freighters, greater availability of rail solutions), the decarbonization of logistics activities
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
Between 2019 and 2030, Renault Group is committed to
reducing by 30% the greenhouse gas emissions
associated with the purchase of goods and services,
transport and distribution, use and end-of-life treatment
2.3.2.1.3.2. Indicators DPEF12a
Carbon footprint of scopes 1 + 2 + 3
Carbon footprint per vehicle sold within the Renault Group scope
Path 2010-2022
40
20
0
Breakdown of GHG emissions by Greenhouse Ga
GHG Protocol
categories Scope
Scope 1 Direct emissions
Scope 2 Indirect emissions
Scope 3 Other emissions produced
Materials and goods (including maintenance and en
Logistics & procurement (upstream & downstream)
Daily commuting and business travel
Sales and after-sales (distribution)
Use of products sold (1) (including fuel and electricity
Total Scopes 1 + 2 + 3
Details of the scopes in appendix 2.6.1.2 and 2.6.1.3.
(1) Well-to wheel, WLTP equivalent. Gains from eco-innovations and eco-driving have
(√) Indicators verified by the independent third-party organization at a reasonable l
0102 … 4102 5102 6102 7102 8102 9102 0202 1202 2202
-25 %
teqCO/vh
2
38.3
32.5
31.5 31.5 31 31.1 31.3 30.5 29.8
28.5
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
f products sold (categories 1, 4, 9, 11 and 12 of the GHG
rotocol). In absolute terms, on the same scope, Renault
02
roup therefore aims to achieve a carbon footprint of less
han 67,000,000 metric tons of COe.
2
Carbon footprint 2022
0.3 %
Distribution
0.06 %
Employee travel
17 %
Materials and Goods
2.2 %
Manufacturing
& Logistics
28.5
68 % t eq CO₂ / vh.
Use
12 %
Fuels & electricity
(use)
Protocol category
Value
(teq. CO)
2
423,071(√)
183,201 (√)
56,453,090
-of-life treatment) 9,637,087
666,323
33,969
178,407
roduction) 45,937, 304
57,059,363
been included in this line
vel of assurance for the 2022 financial year.
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 181

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
Scopes 1 and 2 21
Energy Consumption
MWh MWh/vehicl
7,000,000 2.
2.22
6,000,000 2.
5,000,000
2.
4,000,000 2.03 2.04
2.
3,000,000
1.92 1.
2,000,000
1.
1,000,000
0 1.
2010 ... 2020 2021 2022
Total consumption (MWh) Consumption per vehicle produced
(MWh / vehicle)*
* Until 2019, due to the large number of engines and gearboxes produced for the
partners, a MWh/veh ratio is applied. For the calculation of this ratio, the consumption
the powertrain plants is adjusted in proportion to the total number of vehicles
produced by the Group. However, no adjustment is applied to overall consumption
presented in MWh in the chart.
Breakdown of energy consumption by type
Electricity
Of which from renewable sources
Natural gas
Thermal energy
Of which thermal energy produced from renewable sources
LPG
Biomass
Heavy fuel oil and domestic fuel oil
TOTAL
Of which energy that is renewable or produced from renewable
(√) Indicator audited by the independent third party at a reasonable level o
21 Scope: all manufacturing sites and main logistics, service and engineer
indicators are presented in 2.6.1.5. Details on the scope of environmen
182 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
In 2022, in a context of stable activity compared with 2021,
Renault Group managed to improve its performance by
more than 13% to reach 1.92 MWh / vehicle (14% on the
manufacturing scope). This significant progress is
explained on the one hand by the implementation of
ambitious action plans on all the sites (improvement of
the metering plan, new energy portal, technological
bricks, etc.) and on the other hand by setting up, for the
entire winter period, a task force dedicated to the energy
crisis and reinforced management at all sites.
f
of energy
Total consumption
% MWh
53% 2,165,656
27% 1,099,376
43% 1,744,040
3% 126,207
2% 76,269
1% 44,938
0.1% 4,589
0.1% 2,270
100% 4,087,700(√)
sources 29% 1,176,005
assurance for the 2022 financial year.
ng sites of Renault Group, excluding establishments of the RRG sales network. RRG
al reporting in appendix 2.6.1.3.
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
Greenhouse gas emissions (√)
t eq CO2
1,400,000
1,251,518
1,200,000
1,000,000 577,173 950,105
0.48
800,000
0.42
600,000
400,000
674,345
200,000
0
2010 ... 2020
Direct GHG emissions excluding Direct emissions linked Indirect GHG emissions
stationary air-conditioning to stationary air-conditioning excluding purchased
facilities (t-eq CO2) facilities (measured since 2012) thermal energy (t-eq CO₂)
(√) Indicators audited by the independent third party at a reasonable level of assurance for the 20
Breakdown of greenhouse gas emissions by typ
Direct emissions (Scope 1)
Stationary combustion installations
Filling of air-conditioning systems with refrigerants on produced vehicles
Testing of gear boxes, engines and vehicles on endurance test tracks or r
Company vehicles (1)
Filling of stationary air-conditioning systems for premises and processes
Melting of cast iron
VOC incineration
Indirect emissions (Scope 2)
Static
Thermal energy
(1)Company vehicles include service vehicles, taxi pool vehicles, shuttles, handling e
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
02
t eq CO2 / vehicle
0.8
0.7
0.6
7,057
816,203 0.5
8,95
444,436
0.39 0.4
291,005 606,273
1,952
16,197 14,508 181,249 0.3
0.28
12,675
0.2
482,414
502,495
410,397
0.1
0.0
2021 2022
Indirect emissions related Total emissions (t-eq CO₂)
to purchased thermal energy
(measured since 2013) Emissions per vehicle produced (t-eq CO₂/vehicle)
2 financial year.
of source
Measured
2022 2021 since
70% 63%
61% 57% 2003
1% 1% 2003
ads 1% 1% 2003
3% 3% 2009
2% 2% 2012
0.1% 2022
1% 2022
30% 37%
30% 36% 2009
0% 1% 2013
uipment and forklift trucks running on LPG.
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 183

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
Scope 3 downstream
Average CO emissions from the exhaust o
2
PC Europe, PC worldwide and all vehicles
200
180.7
180
162.9
160
148
140
120
100
80
1995 1996 1997 1998 19992000200120022003200420052006200
Passenger cars, European Union Passenger cars, W
from 2021 onwards, the data are expressed according to the WLTP cycle
Worldwide, passenger cars, and all vehicles:
Average CO2 emissions from exhaust taken into account in the calculation of the carb
2.6.1.2, “Use of products sold” line).
The emissions are expressed in the certification standard applicable to each market. F
methodology developed by the European Commission (NEDC back-translation: NEDC-
force.
European Union, passenger vehicles:
Average CO2 emissions of passenger vehicles sold in the European Union and without t
innovations, phase-in). The geographical scope corresponds to that of the CAFE regula
Emissions are expressed in the certification standard used by the European Commissi
Until 2020, NEDC. For vehicles certified in WLTP, the CO2 emissions are converted into N
back-translation: NEDC-BT).
From 2021: WLTP.
Provisional data for 2021 and 2022, pending validation by the European Commission.
In 2022, based on the data available at the date of publi
Europe 22 averaged 106.8 g CO/km (WLTP) 23. The Group
2
consolidated and formalized by the European Commissio
22 EU27, UK, Iceland, Norway.
23 Without taking into account the flexibilities provided for by the CAFE r
184 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
vehicles sold by Renault Group (g CO /km) –
2
orldwide
149.8
144.5
129.9
135
126.2 114.7
106.8
111
105.2
200820092010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
rldwide All vehicles sold worldwide by the Group
(passenger cars and light commercial vehicles)
n footprint indicator (see description of the covered scope and the data sources in appendix
r WLTP-certified vehicles, CO2 emissions are recalculated in NEDC equivalent according to the
T) to permit comparison with historical values measured before the WLTP protocol came into
king into account the subsidies provided for by the CAFE regulation (super credits, eco-
ion: EU27, UK, Iceland (from 2018), Norway (from 2019).
n and the United Kingdom to monitor the CAFE regulation:
DC equivalent according to the methodology developed by the European Commission (NEDC
ation, CO emissions from Renault Group passenger vehicles in
2
as achieved its CAFE regulatory targets. These results will be
in the coming months.
gulation (super credits, eco-innovations, phase-in).
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
2.3.2.1.4. Risk and opportunity management EFP
2.3.2.1.4.1. Identified climate-related risks and their i
Climate-related risks were analyzed and placed in two
categories: transition risks, arising from the shift to a low-
carbon economy and all the changes that it implies, and
physical risks, along with their potential repercussions on
Transition Short Medium Long Descript
risks term term term on the G
(< 2030) (2030–2040) (2040–2050)
CO emiss
2
stringent
adjusted i
Regulatory
penalty p
and
sales volu
compliance risks
€120 milli
certain v
arising fro
The Grou
expandin
combusti
performa
Technology risks match th
targets wi
carbon
The nece
up produc
Combine
bring abo
Risks related to
more en
market charges
anticipat
expectati
Environm
concern f
Group’s p
brand im
Reputational risks
decline in
strong en
employee
engagem
Workforce risks The accel
how by in
Physical risks
Some ext
Extreme interrupt t
weather events/ An increa
natural disasters higher te
costs, as
The incre
impact th
reduce it
Resource scarcity
productio
materials
vehicles s
Climate c
Because t
Structural geographic
activity. I
and geopolitical
industrial
changes
in the sup
pushing u
By forcin
Spread of diseases pandemic
revenues.
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
12b
02
pact on the business activity
usiness activity and on supply chains. Short-term (< 2030),
edium-term (2030–2040) and long-term (2040–2050)
ilestones were established for each risk.
on and impact
oup's performance
ons regulations for vehicles are frequently updated to apply increasingly
tandards. In Europe, the CAFE emissions target of 95 g CO/km in 2020 was
2
2021 to apply the WLTP standard. In the event of non-compliance, a
yment of €95 per excess gram per vehicle sold is due. Based on current
es, each excess gram of CO/km would incur a penalty of approximately
2
n. Regulatory changes may also introduce traffic bans or restrictions for
hicles. These changes may impact R&D costs and/or production costs,
the need to adapt our vehicles to the new standards.
is building its offering around lesser-polluting vehicles, in particular by
electric vehicle ranges and designing hybrid solutions for internal
n engines. The introduction of these technologies, which offer different
ces in terms of cost, customer service and COe emissions, may not
2
market’s expectations and pace of growth. COe emissions reduction
2
l also entail the adjustment of industrial processes and the roll-out of low-
roduction technologies in the short and medium terms.
sary modernization of plants to increase their energy efficiency may push
ion and R&D costs.
with regulatory changes, the transition to a low-carbon economy may
t behavioral changes among consumers, such as a shift toward smaller or
rgy-efficient vehicles or toward shared mobility, more quickly than
d. A mismatch between the product/service offering and consumer
ns would expose the Group to a decline in revenues.
ntal issues (carbon footprint reduction and impact on air quality) are a
r all stakeholders (employees, NGOs, users, etc.). A mismatch between the
oduct/service offering and environmental requirements could harm its
ge and negatively influence customer purchasing decisions, leading to a
revenues. It could also make the Group less attractive to suppliers. A
ironmental reputation also contributes to attracting talent and increasing
pride in belonging to the Group. A mismatch could affect employee
nt.
rated pace of technological change will create a need to update know-
esting in training and acquiring new skills.
eme weather events may disrupt or, in more serious cases, temporarily
e activity of a number of the Group’s production and logistics facilities.
ed frequency or intensity of floods, hurricanes or droughts, combined with
peratures and sea levels, can push up risk prevention and maintenance
ell as insurance premiums.
sing scarcity of some natural resources, such as water, may directly
automotive industry. It may oblige the Group to make investments to
consumption or pay financial compensation to residents living near
facilities or to local communities. Furthermore, the use of certain raw
uch as cobalt may generate upward price pressure as sales of electrified
eadily grow.
ange may lead to structural and geopolitical changes in certain regions.
e Group has many sites around the world, this could directly impact its
stability in one region or country could require the Group to adjust its
trategy. Regional and geopolitical instability can also create weaknesses
ly chain ecosystem and oblige the Group to reorganize its value chain,
purchase costs.
the shutdown of production facilities or sales outlets, epidemics and
can have a direct impact on sales and manufacturing, and therefore on
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 185

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
2.3.2.1.4.2. Identified climate-related opportuni
Renault Group’s ability to offer innovative responses t
climate risks, exceeding the expectations of transportatio
Short Medium Long
Opportunities term term term
(< 2030) (2030–2040) (2040–2050)
l
Developing new
products and services
and accessing new
markets
Building up the circular
economy of mobility
s
Producing energy for
own use at sites
i
f
s
Strengthening our
reputation as a climate
change leader
t
s
24 This ranking should be updated in 2023.
186 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
ies
sector stakeholders, will also open up new business
opportunities and drive competitiveness.
escription and impact
n the Group's performance
ombined with evolving CO emissions regulations, new consumer preferences for
2
wer-carbon-emission products are a major opportunity to develop new products
nd enter new markets. As a frontrunner in electric mobility and a leading developer
f hybrid technologies and complementary solutions such as fuel cells, Renault
roup is well poised to take advantage of these trends. The Group adapts the skills
f the workforce by putting in place training sessions about new technology and
olsters its electric vehicle manufacturing capacity with the creation of an “Electro
ôle” in France.
uilding up the circular economy is not only a core driver of carbon neutrality for the
roup, but it also underpins the Group’s development of new products and services,
specially through its new Mobilize business unit. By contributing to the circular
conomy, the Group will meet the needs of consumers who want to switch to more
stainable forms of mobility and, at the same time, extend the lifecycle of its
roducts.
o meet carbon footprint reduction targets, the Group must adjust its industrial
rocesses and roll out low-carbon technologies in the short and medium terms. In
ddition to improving the environmental performance of its production facilities, the
roup can use this opportunity to reduce its energy bill and its exposure to future
creases in fossil fuel prices.
enault Group’s efforts to integrate climate change issues into its strategy are an
pportunity to strengthen its reputation as a pacesetter in this area. The Group is the
rst carmaker to have its greenhouse gas reduction targets validated by the
cience-Based Targets initiative. It is one of the top two out of the 30 automotive
ctor companies in the ranking by the World Benchmarking Alliance (WBA) and
DP published in December 202124. This ranking assesses “how companies integrate
limate issues into their strategy, their efforts to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG)
missions and the quality of their management of these emissions”. Renault Group is
lso one of the five companies among those ranked whose GHG reduction targets
eet the Paris Agreement alignment criteria established by the International
nergy Agency. Although it has already established a positive reputation in this area,
e Group’s continued efforts to uphold and deepen its commitments can help
rengthen the confidence of its stakeholders.
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
2.3.2.1.4.3. Climate scenarios
Following the signing of the Paris Climate Agreement
(COP 21) in 2015, the Group’s product plan and strategy
were redesigned to ensure its contribution to limiting
global warming to well below 2°C. This central scenario
underpins the "Renaulution" strategic plan.
New Green Deal Eco-Techno
1.5 °C 3 °C
Scenario description In this scenario, the raised awareness of In this scenari
climate risk by all stakeholders around the regions maint
world (governments, financial institutions regions succe
and citizen consumers) drives more levels of emiss
sustainable regulations, business models economic exp
and lifestyles. This scenario is enabled by development
worldwide public-private collaborations. (including mo
The main emitting industries participate the lack of wor
fully in the transition to a low-carbon coordinated cl
economy. Through efficient coordination warming of ab
with legislators and robust planning at a impacts affec
global level, new technologies to respond to are faced with
climate change are developed. This and demand f
systemic approach to mobility paves the
way for the growth of efficient, multimodal
services.
Highest risk Transition risks and opportunities Transition risk
Physical risks
Since 2017, climate scenario analysis has been an integral I
part of the Group’s strategic thinking. These analyses are
based on external benchmark data, in particular:
● World Automotive Powertrain Outlook, used by the
French automotive industry platform (PFA);
● 1.5TECH and 1.5LIFE scenarios presented by the
European Commission on November 28, 2018;
● Energy Technology Perspectives, published by the i
International Energy Agency (B2DS or “Beyond 2°C”
scenario).
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
n analysis of alternative climate scenarios was also 02
onducted to inform the Group’s risk management
trategy up to 2050, with intermediate milestones in 2030
nd 2040:
riven Retreat and fragmentation
4 °C
, the most developed Global governance and technologies are
in worldwide growth. These lacking, leading to a general economic
d in combining low local decline and a retreat from globalization in
ons with climate-focused the aftermath of climate, economic and
nsion, through the political crises. Physical risks such as
f new technologies floods, fires and droughts become frequent
ility services). Despite this, and uncontrollable, leading to population
dwide commitment and of migration and wider inequalities.
mate policy leads to global Low-tech and low-cost become the norm,
ut 3 °C, whose physical including in mobility, and long-distance
all populations. Carmakers travel is discouraged.
wide diversity of usages
om one region to another.
Physical risks including
structural, geographic
and geopolitical changes.
2020 and 2021, in alignment with the TCFD’s
ecommendations, the Group expanded and deepened its
nalysis of climate scenarios and the implications of
limate risks on its short-, medium- and long-term
erformance. The three climate scenarios described
bove were based on this work and on internal scenarios
onstructed by the R&D Department and the Strategy
epartment. In 2022, the Group continued its work,
cluding the launch of a comprehensive study of the
ulnerability of our industrial and logistics sites to extreme
limate scenarios.
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 187

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
2.3.2.1.4.4. Resilience under the different climat
After identifying climate risks and alternative scenario
the Group performed an initial analysis to assess th
nature and significance of the impacts of each risk on th
Group’s short-, medium- and long-term performance, i
order to prioritize the issues. The impacts of each risk o
performance were assessed according to several criteri
each of which was broken down into sub-criteria for
more granular analysis. This impact analysis is full
1.5 °C Sce
Risks and opportunities
Transition risks and opportunities
Changes to regulations and standards
Technology changes
Market changes
Reputational risks
& opportunities
Workforce changes
Physical risks and opportunities
Extreme weather events /
Natural disasters
Resource scarcity
Structural geographic and geopolitical
changes
Spread of diseases
Renault Group’s strategy for dealing with the risks an
section 2.3.2.1.2.
2.3.2.1.4.5. How the Group identifies climate ris
To meet the TCFD’s recommendations on climate-relate
financial disclosures, a working group was created i
2020. Its members represent the various Grou
departments with strategic added value for the climat
project: they include the Head of Risk Management, th
Head of Financial Communications, the Strategi
Environmental Planning Department and sever
technical experts. The “Climate” working Group identifie
the risks related to climate change (including transitio
and physical risks), built scenarios, assessed the impact
2.3.2.1.4.6. How the Group manages climate ris
Identifying and managing risks relating to the environmen
and to climate change are a part of the Group’s global ris
management system, which is supervised by the Ris
Management Department. The Group’s risk managemen
system is detailed in section 4.1.
dna
ezis
tekraM
erutcurts seuneveR
selas
fo
tsoC
stsoc
rehtO
188 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
scenarios
, integrated into the Group’s risk management process. For
example, the tools used to assess climate risk impacts on
performance are also employed to conduct an overall
analysis of Renault Group’s risks.
The following table is a simplified illustration of an
,
analysis of the climate risk impacts on each business
criterion, based on the following scenario.
ario 3 °C Scenario 4 °C Scenario
opportunities associated with climate change is detailed in
s
of each risk on Group performance under each scenario
and developed action plans.
Starting in 2015, work on a materiality matrix had made it
possible to identify “material” issues, i.e. those that will
have a major impact on the Group’s ecosystem and its
performance, on which it will therefore have to focus its
l
efforts. This matrix was updated in 2020 (see section 2.1.4).
“Reducing the total carbon footprint” is a top priority for
Renault Group. Internal and external stakeholders expect
the Group to continue its efforts to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions.
s
The risk management method applied by Renault Group is
based on identifying and assessing risks of any kind,
which are then mapped (as mentioned earlier), and on
carrying out action plans to deal with these risks, and
specifically their net impact and/or probability of
occurrence, by means of elimination, prevention,
protection or transfer.
,gnicnanfi ).cte
, robal
dna
ezis
tekraM
erutcurts seuneveR selas
fo tsoC
stsoc
rehtO
,D&R
,xepaC(
,gnicnanfi ).cte
, robal
dna
ezis
tekraM
erutcurts seuneveR selas
fo tsoC
stsoc
rehtO
,D&R
,xepaC(
,gnicnanfi ).cte
, robal
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
In 2021, the risks related to global warming were
introduced as such in the mapping of the Group’s major
risks in order to strengthen their visibility and the
management of the associated action plans (see chapter
4.2 of this document). As such, with regard to physical
risks, the actions undertaken in the monitoring of existing
risks (e.g. risk of natural disasters or risk to raw materials)
were supplemented by cross-cutting initiatives such as
2.3.2.2. Resources and the circular econo
THE FUTURE IS NEUTRAL
In October 2022, Renault Group announced the creation of THE FUTU
automotive circular economy value chain, with the aim of engaging the
Bringing together all the expertise and all the industrial and technolog
and its partners, THE FUTURE IS NEUTRAL offers closed-loop recyclin
raw materials, production, use, and end of life.
To carry out its activities, THE FUTURE IS NEUTRAL relies on a wide ran
to the use of data, which it places at the heart of its business model t
solutions. THE FUTURE IS NEUTRAL also offers the automotive sector
the circular economy, with the support of the Industrie Circulaire de
ReKnow University.
The new legal unit THE FUTURE IS NEUTRAL will be implemented betwe
Metrics and targets(1)
Product Develop revenues from circular economy activities(2)
Product Share of recycled materials in new vehicles
(all materials – in mass)
Product Increase the share of strategic recycled materials
that Renault Group plans to re-integrate into the
production of new batteries (closed loop)
Manufacturing Reduce the amount of non-recycled waste per
vehicle produced at the Group’s sites (4)
At the manufacturing sites, reduce the amount of
hazardous waste generated per vehicle produced
Reduce the amount of mixed non-hazardous waste
generated
Achieve 87% waste recovery(5)
(1)Scope of these targets: Environmental reporting scope described in appendix 2.6.
(2)This target will be reassessed in 2023 following the creation of the new entity TH
on the calculation of this KPI in appendix 2.6.1.2.C.
(3)Estimated for vehicles produced in Europe, Turkey and Morocco. The process of
and materials used in the production of the Group’s vehicles is under constructio
(4)Waste for which the processing network is designated by European processing c
(5)Excluding metallic waste, which is already 100% recycled
(6)This indicator is published on the basis of constant material prices to ensure cont
Reducing the consumption of virgin materials is a key
objective, both on an ecological and economic level. The
extraction and processing of raw materials have
negative impacts on ecosystems and reduce their
availability for future generations (see 4.2.2. “Risk of
failure in supply of raw materials” paragraph). At the
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
he launch of a study of the vulnerability of the industrial
nd logistics sites in connection with the climate
02
cenarios mentioned above.
isk management policy is applied at Group level for
ajor risks, but it is also rolled out at operating entity level
countries, commercial and/or industrial subsidiaries), for
ehicle programs and corporate functions.
y EFPD9 EFPD10 EFPD11b DV5a
E IS NEUTRAL the first company operating across the entire
automotive industry in moving towards resource neutrality.
cal assets linked to the circular economy existing in the Group
solutions at every stage of a vehicle’s life: supply of parts and
e of technical skills, from advanced engineering and chemistry
optimize the economic and environmental performance of its
consultancy service, as well as training courses dedicated to
a Mobilité (ICM) campus based in Flins as part of the Group’s
n the end of 2022 and 2023.
Status at year-end
tarting point Aims 2022
2021 2030: €1bn €651m(6)
30% (Europe)(3)
2030: 33% (World)
2021 2030: 80% Announcement of the
creation of the subsidiary
THE FUTURE IS NEUTRAL
dedicated to the automotive
circular economy and in particular
battery recycling
2013 2023: -30% -33%
2013 2023: -19% -15%
2013 2023: -26% -20%
2023: 87% 90.5%
.3.
FUTURE IS NEUTRAL dedicated to the circular economy. More information
eporting and consolidating supplier data on the recycled content of parts
.
des D or R1 (energy recovery), excluding foundry and construction waste.
nuity in the monitoring of performance. See methodological note 2.6.1.2.C
ame time, the rising trend observed in raw material
rices since the beginning of the century and their
olatility affects the profitability of the business. Circular
conomy principles reduce the Group’s exposure to
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 189

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
resource scarcity and commodity price volatilit
through:
● eco-design standards for both vehicles and batterie
including frugal use of scarce materials, incorporatin
recycled materials, preparing vehicles for dismantlin
and end-of-life recycling;
● projects that aim to develop and implement ne
technical solutions and industrial channels for collectio
reuse, renovation and recycling of parts and material
These projects make it possible to expand the range o
reused or remanufactured parts on offer, second-life us
and recycling of electrical vehicle batteries, and settin
up recycling closed loops within the automotive sector;
● plans to improve the efficiency of industrial processe
allowing resource use to be optimized and waste to b
minimized and recovered.
Renault Group also ensures that it adopts a responsibl
purchasing approach, the first step of which is to draw u
a map of human and environmental risks (see 2.2.
Supplier and subcontractor vigilance plan).
Refactory, the first European circular economy plant dedicat
In November 2020, Renault Group announced the creation
transformation strategy and builds on its pioneering commit
model for sustainable mobility, based on the value-creation
new activities, initiated in 2021, will continue until 2025.
The Refactory relies on a large network of multi-sector partn
and is structured around four areas of activity.
ReTrofit: This division combines all the activities making it po
the Re-Cycle division, to ensure efficient management of the
Since the end of 2020, it has included a UV Factory for the reco
to which a new heavy body shop will be added in 2023 to repair
A ReTrofit activity for the conversion of thermal vehicles to
ReTrofit of electric motors for MASTER commercial vehicles.
and Tolv (formerly Phoenix Mobility) is the first collaboration
ReTrofit sector. The partnership is a proof-of-concept project
This will be supplemented by fleet repair services, particularly
ReEnergy: The aim of this division is to scale up innovative app
assessment and repair of electric vehicle batteries, dismantli
of second-life applications such as stationary electric en
infrastructure for low-carbon vehicles.
ReCycle: This division, including the remanufacturing worksh
activities contributing to the efficient management of ma
automotive components, closed-loop recycling of materials fr
ReStart: To promote and develop industrial know-how, but al
division will house an incubator as well as a training cente
advanced manufacturing activity with ReTrofit services for in
190 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
Vehicle Vehicle
, production maintenance
Reused parts
, and renovated parts
. End-of-life
Supply chain Scraps
vehicles (ELV)
and parts
Renovation or
remanufacturing
Recyclers
Dismanting
Foundries/converters
Recycled materials
from ELV
Recycled materials
(other industries)
d to mobility
f the Refactory at its site in Flins. This project is part of the Group’s
ent to the circular economy. It aims to develop a competitive industrial
otential generated by a vehicle throughout its life. The roll-out of the
rs (start-ups, academic partners, major groups, local authorities, etc.)
sible to extend the life of vehicles and their uses, in coordination with
flow of used parts and materials within the company on a single site.
ditioning of used vehicles with a capacity of 45,000 vehicles per year,
up to 25,000 vehicles involved in an impact per year.
ther less carbon-intensive energies is also planned, starting with the
Announced in mid-July 2022, the partnership between Renault Group
etween a non-specialized vehicle manufacturer and a start-up in the
ith the aim of launching a future commercial offering.
or car-sharing.
ications using electric vehicle batteries and new low-carbon energies:
g of end-of-life batteries and reuse of their components, development
rgy storage, industrialization of hydrogen fuel cells and charging
ps transferred from the Choisy-le-Roi site, will bring together various
erials: dismantling of end-of-life vehicles, reuse and renovation of
m the various Refactory divisions and the INDRA network.
o to accelerate research and innovation in the circular economy, this
dedicated to circular economy professions. It will also include an
ustrial robots and production of parts from 3D printers.
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
Metals and plastics make up more than 85 % of the
materials in automobiles. In 2022, vehicle production (2.1
million units) at the Group's plants and parts suppliers
required approximately 2.7 million metric tons of steel,
185,000 metric tons of cast iron and 270,000 metric tons of
aluminum. These estimated figures include offcuts of
sheet metal and metal shavings generated during
supplier parts manufacturing processes and in Renault’s
plants. In addition, Renault Group used about 350,000
metric tons of plastic materials, including offcuts, in
vehicle manufacturing in 2022.
Among the materials used in the plants in the Europe and
North Africa Regions (approximately two thirds of the
Renault is a partner of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation and m
The Ellen MacArthur Foundation works with businesses, universities a
develop the scientific and managerial knowledge required for thei
environmental benefits.
As a founding partner of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, Renaul
coordinated by the Foundation and develops activities based on the
the activities of Renault Environment.
For more information: https://ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/Renault
In addition, Renault Group has been a founding member of the RECO
chair positions. RECORD is a recognized player in France in applied r
management and resource efficiency in a circular economy perspect
For more information: https://record-net.org/
2.3.2.2.1. Designing vehicles
that are recyclable
MATERIALS
and material-efficient
Renault anticipated the European regulatory requirement
whereby 95% of vehicle mass should be recyclable or
recoverable and implemented it on all models brought to
market starting in 2007. In addition, it has been voluntarily
i
applied to all Group vehicles sold worldwide.
Accordingly, since the early 2000s, the design of Renault
vehicles has taken dismantling and recycling
requirements into account. For example, disassembly is
made easier by reducing the number of attachments. For
example, dismantling has been made easier by reducing
the number of fixing points. Similarly, preference is given
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
uantities above), it is estimated that the portion of
ecycled steel materials ranges from 17 % for flat steel to
02
ore than 90 % for steel bars and cast iron. The recycled
aterials rate for aluminum varies considerably
ccording to the processes used to manufacture the
arts: it is nearly 100 % for aluminum foundries and
econdary smelting and nearly 40 % for pressed
luminum parts manufactured internally.
he average mass of recycled plastics for all vehicles
roduced in Europe, Turkey and North African in 2022 is
pproximately 19 kg per vehicle. For new vehicles, put into
roduction in 2022, this same average rises to 23 kg.
mber of the RECORD network
d decision makers to promote circular economic models and
adoption and to advise on the potential for economic and
contributes to its funding, supports the work and events
rinciples of the circular economy, such as the Refactory and
D network since 1989 and currently holds one of the two vice-
search in the field of end-of-life product management, waste
ve.
o recyclable materials for which recycling systems exist;
henever possible, a single part will not contain materials
hat cannot be recycled together; and tanks are shaped
o allow all fuel and oil to be removed. During the design
hase, every new vehicle project is monitored by a
ecycling specialist.
enault also participates in research projects aimed at
eveloping new recycled and recyclable materials
ecyclables (see example of the DECORE Project in the box
paragraph 2.3.2.2.6 Recycling).
he possibility of renovating powertrains or certain of their
arts (remanufacturing) is also taken into consideration
rom the beginning of their design by facilitating the
ismantling and assessment of their components.
enault Group is also working at reducing the amount of
aterials used in manufacturing its vehicles.
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 191

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
Reducing our dependence on rare earths
Since permanent magnets often contain rare earths, the
possible. Since 2011, for its 100% electric vehicles, the comp
without permanent magnets and therefore requiring no rare
In addition, when feasible, the Group chooses materials othe
such as speakers.
Renault Group is also reducing the use of the most critical rar
consumption of Dysprosium (a heavy rare earth) decreased
earths (more critical in terms of supply) with light rare earths
Lastly, Renault is working on projects to recycle rare earths
minerals even further.
2.3.2.2.2. Reducing at source
and recovering waste
MATERIALS
In accordance with the principles of the circular econom
Renault has adopted a preventive approach to achiev
the maximum reduction in the environmental impact
associated with waste, through the implementation of th
following principles, in order of priority:
● reduce the quantity of waste generated at source, b
first eliminating the source of its creation, wher
possible: this means that the use of sustainabl
packaging in the transportation of manufacturing part
is favored over that of single-use packaging, particularl
for high-volume parts and short logistical flows (th
economic and carbon assessments incorporating th
return of empty packaging are not favorable for lo
volumes transported over long distances).
When the production of waste cannot be avoided, we see
to reduce the amount by separating the portion that is no
waste per se. There are several solutions, such a
dehydration of sludge from the painting process an
water treatment plants, separation of reusable oils fro
sludge and machining chips, etc.). For example, th
installation of a 3rd evapo-concentrator at the Cléon plan
in early 2020 made it possible to reduce the tonnage o
hazardous waste by around 10%;
● reuse spent products, production offcuts and scrap: i
assembly plants, excess anti-corrosion protectio
waxes are recovered after application, filtered an
returned to the production system. Following th
implementation of regeneration of solvents used to rins
the painting robots on most sites, the reuse of thes
regenerated solvents in the paint lines is now in place a
the Batilly, Maubeuge, Flins, Sandouville (France) an
Valladolid (Spain) sites. In Colombia, the Medellin plan
has been recycling its paint solvents internally sinc
2014, enabling the plant to eliminate almost all solven
waste. As regards powertrain manufacturing sites, th
Cléon plant collects and regenerates used stamping an
25 Environmental reporting scope described in appendix 2.6.1.3.
26 See table at the beginning of chapter 2.3.2.2
192 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
roup has moved toward engines that do not contain them where
ny has chosen externally excited synchronous motors, a technology
arths.
than rare earths in its magnets, for example, ferrite for applications
earths through technological innovations. For example, the Group’s
y 65% between 2011 and 2016. The Group strives to replace heavy rare
hen possible.
with the aim of reducing its dependence on the extraction of these
hydraulic oils from the Flins plant to use as a substitute
for new oils. When they are in good condition, used wood
pallets are reused within the Company or resold for the
same purpose;
● recycle the materials contained in the waste. This form
of waste treatment can be applied to most recoverable
, materials (cardboard, plastic, metal, etc.). In this way,
metallic waste, which represents over 70% 25 of the total
production waste, is almost 100% recycled. Paper,
cardboard and plastics are also systematically sorted
for recycling. However, beyond these “traditional”
recyclable waste categories, some more complex types
of waste that may initially appear of no value can also be
recycled through incorporation in the composition of
new materials. In 2022, the Group exceeded its 2023
target of reducing non-recycled waste per vehicle26. The
resumption of production and the improved
performance of several high-impact sites led to this
strong improvement.
● recover energetically:
by using waste as an alternative fuel: as an example,
●
the site at Flins, since 2017, has been sending part of its
hazardous waste to a facility for the preparation of
substitute solid fuel (SSF) supplied to cement works as
an alternative to fuel oil for the combustion units;
or by recovering energy from its incineration to
●
produce electricity or steam; this in turn can be used to
replace natural gas for heating paint drying ovens, as
is the case at the Sandouville plant in France and the
Busan plant in South Korea;
● dispose by burning waste (without energy recovery) in
incineration facilities or burying it in landfills. Renault is
seeking to minimize the use of this waste management
method. Based on a like-for-like scope of operations,
Renault reduced the amount of manufacturing waste
sent to landfill (except demolition and foundry waste) by
75% from 2022 to 2023). Between 2013 and 2021, this rate
was -67%.
To ensure consistency at a Group-wide level, Renault has
drafted a waste table (a codified list of waste produced by
sites). This makes it possible to standardize the approach
to hazardous and non-hazardous waste internationally.
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
Waste by category and treatment method (metr
Total Rec
Hazardous waste 2022 41,976 1
2021 44,406
2020 48,235
Non-hazardous industrial waste (2) 2022 137,456 1
2021 132,336 11
2020 132,192 1
Metallic waste 2022 436,544 4
2021 441,757 4
2020 498,243 4
TOTAL 2022 615,976 5
2021 618,499 5
2020 678,669 6
(1)Scope: reporting scope described in appendix 2.6.1.3. Quantities of construction w
(2)Excluding metallic waste.
(√) Indicator audited by the independent third party at a reasonable level of assuran
Waste per vehicle produced (kg/vehicle) (1)(√)
400
358
350
335
300 298
2
250
200
150
100
50
23
0
…
2013 20
Total waste (kg/vehicle produced) Non-hazardous waste (k
(1) Reporting scope described in appendix 2.6.1.3. Quantities of construction waste, u
(√) Indicator audited by the independent third party at a reasonable level of assura
Between 2021 and 2022, the overall amount of waste per vehicl
(-2%) is explained in particular by the decrease in the quantities o
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
c tons/year) (1)(√) 02
Energy Incinerated without Other elimination
cled recovery energy recovery channels
,006 13,525 6,667 3,778
7,348 14,284 7,212 5,561
18,177 14,790 6,854 8,413
6,895 13,704 1,311 5,546
,489 13,156 903 7,787
8,955 14,525 525 8,186
4,252 0 20 2,292
9,872 0 0 1,886
7,420 – 2 821
9,154 27,228 7,978 11,616
7,709 27,440 8,116 15,234
4,552 29,315 7,382 17,420
ste unrelated to the activity are not included.
e for the 2022 financial year.
294
289
7 273 269
21 21 20
0 2021 2022
/vehicle produced) Hazardous waste (kg/vehicle produced)
related to the activity, do not appear on the graph.
ce for the 2022 financial year.
produced remains relatively stable. The slight decrease
metal waste.
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 193

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
2.3.2.2.3. Collect, sort,
dismantle, direct
MATERIALS
Collection is an essential step in the recycling of end-of
life products. In addition to its regulatory obligation
Renault has chosen to invest directly in the collection an
processing networks for ELVs (end-of-life vehicles) i
France (45% of the Group’s European end-of-life vehicle
are located here due to Renault’s long-ter
establishment in the country) in order to retain economi
and technical control of material flows.
In 2022, Renault created “THE FUTURE IS NEUTRAL,” whic
aims to bring together all the existing expertise of th
Group and its partners in this activity. This new entit
offers short-loop recycling solutions at every stage of
vehicle’s life: supply of parts and raw material
production, use, and end of life, with the ambition of takin
recycling into a new era and becoming the Europea
leader in the automotive circular economy.
In concrete terms, THE FUTURE IS NEUTRAL relies on it
subsidiary Gaia, whose activities in battery repai
collection and reuse of parts, and recycling of material
from end-of-life vehicles (ELV) are based in Flins, but als
on INDRA and BOONE COMENOR, experts in the recyclin
of metal scraps from the industry.
Since 2008, together with its key partner Suez, Renault ha
held a 50% stake in INDRA, the leading ELV processin
company in France, which has a network of 380 approve
ELV centers.
INDRA has been active in automotive dismantling fo
more than 30 years and is now fully aligned with this ne
era, working at all levels of automotive dismantlin
through four complementary areas of activity:
● engineering: INDRA designs, develops, produces an
markets innovative tools, equipment and processe
(refined and tested at their own dismantling site i
Romorantin) that deal with ELV decontaminatio
dismantling and recycling. These tools and methods ar
intended to be widely disseminated within INDRA’
network of ELV Centers, but also internationally INDR
develops and delivers training programs through it
AURECA Training Centre created in 2021 (nearl
1,000 people trained by 2022);
● management/distribution of ELV for manufacturer
insurers, governments and even individuals through it
380 authorized ELV centers (+7 between 2021 and 2022);
● dismantling/recycling in its own dismantling centers;
● sale of refurbished parts under warranty: Indr
distributes certified, reusable parts dismantled at it
sites through its network.
According to data available at the date of publicatio
around 450,000 end-of-life vehicles were processed i
2022 by Indra’s network of authorized ELV Centers or by it
own dismantling sites, including more than 25,000 via th
goodbye-car.com website, which offers a “turnkey” EL
collection service aimed at retail customers.
194 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
Renault Group’s investment in these activities through
“THE FUTURE IS NEUTRAL” has four objectives:
● to meet Renault’s regulatory requirements concerning
ELV collection and processing in France;
● to improve the technical and economic performance of
the network, thereby achieving in a cost-efficient
, manner the European goal of 95% vehicle recycling and
recovery rate, through the development of new
dismantling tools and processes for ELVs, and
supporting and training its automotive dismantling
network;
● to feed recycling closed loops (see the “Recycling”
paragraph below) in order to reduce dependence on and
consumption of virgin raw materials;
● THE FUTURE IS NEUTRAL also aims to become a
European leader in short-loop battery recycling, in line
with regulations, and attractive to other vehicle
, manufacturers through the operation of a first-class
industrial process in terms of efficiency and purity to
ensure the required level of recycled content in their
batteries at the best cost. To develop Europe’s first
short-loop battery recycling offer, the entity relies on the
, largest fleet of electric vehicles and high-content
chemistry and capitalizes on INDRA’s expanding
network to help with battery recycling and Gaia’s
expertise for their diagnostics.
2.3.2.2.4. Reuse
MATERIALS
The subsidiary Gaia collects unused parts in the sales
network as well as at the plants and suppliers’ facilities,
sorts them and, depending on their condition, directs
them to reuse, remanufacturing or, failing that, to the most
appropriate recycling system.
In France, Renault has offered used body parts (including
,
hoods, wings, headlamp units, etc.) collected and selected
from Indra’s network of dismantlers since 2012.
To facilitate access to refurbished parts, Indra has also
developed the PRECIS system, in partnership with Sidexa.
This was put into service in France in 2014 and enables a
pooled inventory of premium quality refurbished parts for
repairers to be created, supplied by the Indra network
,
demolishers. When pricing the repairs to be carried out on
vehicles, repairers are automatically informed by the
PRECIS module of Sidexa’s Pacte Office software (market
leader in calculation software) of the existence of
refurbished parts available in the pooled inventory. This
reduces the cost of repair while maintaining the same
level of guarantees. This offer allows the restoration of
vehicles at a lower cost, including those for which repair
,
would not have otherwise been economically viable using
new parts alone, thus extending the vehicle life while very
significantly reducing the environmental footprint
associated with the repairs.
The deployment of PRECIS continued to progress, with all
140 dealers in the Indra network connected. PRECIS is also
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
continuing to penetrate the networks of automotive
brands and independent coach builders who use Sidexa’s
costing solutions.
In 2022, Renault Group strengthened its partnership with
PRECIS to facilitate its network’s support for the tool and
thus contribute to the increased use of reused parts by
repairers. This activity still has significant potential for I
growth, given the continued low penetration of used parts
in the repair market.
Lastly, Renault Group also gives a second life to the
i
batteries of its electric vehicles, which can be reused at
the end of their first life on the vehicle and before they are
recycled: the subsidiary Mobilize develops and
implements with its partners numerous non-automotive
energy storage applications (see section 2.4.1.1.A).
2.3.2.2.5. Remanufacturing
and reconditioning
MATERIALS
For more than 70 years, Renault has been
remanufacturing: the refurbishment of mechanical parts.
Used parts are collected in the sales network, sorted and
refurbished. Between 1949 and 2022, the renovation of
engines and manual gearboxes was carried out at the
Choisy-le-Roi (France) factory. In the first half of 2022, the
Choisy-le-Roi factory’s activities were integrated into the
Flins Refactory.
This activity adheres to a strict industrial process:
involving complete dismantling, cleaning, sorting,
refurbishment and replacement of faulty or worn parts,
reassembly and inspection. Parts that cannot be reused
during renovation undergo closed-loop recycling in
Renault Group foundries.
These renovated “Standard Exchange” parts are sold to
Renault and Dacia vehicle owners at a price that is, on
average, 30 % lower than that of a new part, while
satisfying the same quality requirements. Far from being
marginal, the standard exchange parts offering covers
powertrain parts mechanical parts, and electronics and is
regularly extended to cover new parts categories.
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
.3.2.2.6. Recycling:
develop new recycling 02
MATERIALS
routes, use recycled
materials
accordance with the principles of the circular economy,
enault’s objective is to ensure not only that waste from
he automotive industry is recycled but, whenever
ossible, that it is recycled within the automotive industry
self (closed loop). The challenge is to maintain the
echnical qualities and economic value of materials
uring recycling.
t end-2022, the short-loop recycling networks set up by
enault included:
recycling of copper: the wire bought back from the
dismantlers of end-of-life vehicles by GAIA is processed
to recover the copper. The copper is then resold either to
the Fonderie de Bretagne (Renault Group) for the
production of pearlitic cast iron or to auto industry
suppliers for aluminum processing. The copper recycled
by GAIA is of a high-quality, enabling it to meet
demanding technical specifications and to replace
virgin or post-industrial material;
recycling of polypropylene (plastic material): GAIA
collects bumpers from dismantlers and garages and
ensures that they are processed in order to meet the
Renault-Nissan Alliance’s technical specifications.
Seven grades of polypropylene provided by this
recycling network have been listed with the Renault
Materials Panel, of which three are used for mass
production applications and four are currently awaiting
approval for new vehicle projects;
recycling of metallic waste from manufacturing (sheet
metal, shavings from machining). Loops between Renault
plants or between Renault plants and suppliers of metal
parts have been set up in France, Spain and Brazil;
recycling of platinum-group metals. Gaia collects
catalytic converters from end-of-life vehicles from
dismantlers, from which it extracts the platinum-group
metals. These recycled metals are then sold to an auto
industry supplier to be re-used in the manufacturing of
catalytic converters.
hese closed loops contribute to the achievement of
enault’s objectives for the use of recycled materials in
ew vehicles. The collection and transportation of
aterials during the recycling process are also optimized
o achieve the greatest reduction in the environmental
ootprint of the recycled materials.
he Group regularly develops new ways of reusing
aterials from end-of-life vehicles, notably through
ollaborative research projects bringing together
anufacturers, local authorities, public players and
niversities (see DECORE Project box below for example).
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 195

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
DECORE project (Decarbonization
Led by equipment manufacturer Faurecia and with the pa
economy, the DECORE consortium focuses on three major are
● Designing new materials based on recycled and/or bio-sou
● Developing car cockpits made of recycled (or bio-sourced)
● Extending the life of vehicles through reconditioning and u
This consortium aims to provide:
► from 2022, concrete solutions to reduce the carbon footprin
► and, by 2030, cocts with newly developed technologies, wit
recycled or biobased materials.
Supported by the government as part of the Investing in the F
public authorities and the control of BPI France’s progra
neutrality and the circular economy.
The other members of the consortium are the CEA, a publi
RECYCLING, an SME recycler and equipment manufacturer si
The consortium also relies on numerous partners, sector an
contribute to transforming vehicle seat and interior modules t
2.3.2.3. Health and substances EFPD
Environmental objectives
Manufacturing Reduce average VOC(1) emissions
per m² of painted body
Manufacturing Reduce the number of hazardous chemicals (2)
and product Group sites
(-68% between 2010 and 2022)
(1)VOC (volatile organic compounds) emissions of the vehicle body paint
accessories).
(2)Chemical products classified as “Priority 1” (PR1) by Renault for replace
mutagenic and reprotoxic) substances or substances listed in appendi
thresholds defined by Renault standard 00-10-050 on prohibited or restr
(3)February 2021.
Renault Group keeps an active and continuous watch o
scientific and technical developments relating to healt
issues. The objective is to identify as soon as possible th
solutions available to reduce the potential health impacts o
the Group’s activities. This monitoring is primarily based o
the analysis of environmental and health publications fro
196 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
f the Coct and Recycling/Reconditioning)
ticipation of Renault as a pioneering manufacturer in the circular
s:
ced materials for the Interior and Seats scope;
nd recyclable materials;
grade solutions.
and increase the use of recycled and/or biobased materials;
a carbon impact of -85% compared with 2019 and incorporating 40%
ture Program (PIA), this project benefits from the commitment of the
s to develop technological expertise in France related to carbon
scientific, technical and industrial research organization, and MTB
ce 1981 and an expert in complex waste management.
scientific players (Next move, PFA, Collège de France, etc.) who will
ward a circular economy.
a EFPD8b EFPD16a DV5a
Status
Starting point Objective at year-end 2022
2013 2023: –32% –27%
sed on 2010 2022: –68% –68%
2016 2022: –20% –20%
2021(3) 2030: –50% –39%
orkshops (excluding paint for parts such as bumpers made of plastic materials and
ent. This category includes products containing category 1a/1b CMR (carcinogenic,
es XIV and XVII of the European REACH regulation in concentrations higher than the
cted substances (see 2.2.2.3.2 “Substance risk management” below).
the scientific community, official national or international
bodies and non-governmental organizations. It also uses
collaboration with technology and engineering suppliers to
identify and evaluate the technological building blocks that
may be integrated into future Group products.
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
2.3.2.3.1. Air quality
2.3.2.3.1.1. Manufacturing
AIR
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
Emissions from volatile organic compounds are
monitored, and an action plan to reduce them is in place.
This plan involves:
● disseminating the Group’s best practices on the
reduction in the consumption of solvent paint products
1
and the associated emissions, led by the Group’s Paint
Engineering Department;
● implementing or replacing VOC-processing incineration
facilities where necessary.
In 2022, the continuation of the electronic components
crisis weighed on the VOC indicator, with a negative
effect due to two main causes: the non-proportionality
between the drop in production volumes and solvent
consumption and the successive shutdowns/restarts
requiring the use of solvents for cleaning and purging
facilities. Despite this deterioration in production
conditions, the reduction actions made it possible to (
f
achieve the expected target. The actions to reduce VOC
emissions in the Group’s plants during 2022 included:
● installation of robotic equipment for certain bodywork
paint and coating tasks, which enables much finer
optimization of the quantities of products used;
● introduction of indicators at certain sites to optimize
sealant and paint consumption and therefore reduce
emissions at source (continuation of the deployment
initiated in 2021, with, for example, the optimization of the
paint application rate in Cordoba);
● perpetuation of actions undertaken to improve the
recovery rate of used solvents (cleaning and purging
solvents) at all sites (e.g. installation of manual purge
boxes at the Busan site this year).
All of these actions made it possible to achieve a Group
i
emission level of 31.84 g/m² (for a target of 32 g/m²). At end-
2022, more than 80% of vehicles produced were painted
with water-soluble base (i.e. the solvent in the paint mainly
consists of water)27.
27 Environmental reporting scope described in appendix 2.6.1.3.
28 Environmental reporting scope described in appendix 2.6.1.3. Without correctio
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
enault Group VOC emissions(√)
02
0
43.7
0
34.5
33.4 31.8
0
0
0
2013 ... 2020 2021 2022
VOC g/m2
cope: all body assembly and mixed Renault Group manufacturing sites (reporting
cope described in appendix 2.6.1.3). The emissions measured are those of the vehicle
ody paint workshops (excluding paint for parts such as bumpers made of plastic
aterials and accessories).
) Indicators audited by the independent third party at a reasonable level of assurance
r the 2022 financial year.
O and NOx emissions
2
rom combustion
AIR
uring the 2000s, Renault Group completed a large-scale
rogram to replace fuel oil with natural gas in the thermal
ower stations of its sites to cut emissions of sulfur
ioxide (SO), nitrogen oxides (NOx) and carbon dioxide
2
CO). In addition, from the 2010s onwards, investments
2
ere also made to replace the high-power boilers at the
ites with decentralized low-power boilers, close to the
roduction facilities, thereby optimizing the power output
nd limiting heat losses in the networks. Currently, the
ain focus is on the modernization of gas boilers and the
stallation of low NOx-emissions burners. SO emissions
2
ecreased from 36 metric tons in 2010 to 4.1 metric tons in
022. NOx emissions decreased from 597 metric tons in
010 to 333.8 metric tons in 2022.28
of scope between 2010 and 2021.
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 197

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
2.3.2.3.1.2. Vehicle use
Reduction of pollutant emissions
from internal combustion engine
AIR
vehicles
All vehicles sold by Renault Group worldwide hav
received appropriate approval from the relevan
authorities in accordance with all regulations in force.
Following the widespread deployment of particulat
filters for diesel vehicles, as imposed by the Euro
standard, the Euro 6x standards lowered the authorize
particulate emissions levels for all engines while reducin
by more than half, compared with Euro 5, the authorize
limits of nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions durin
laboratory testing for the approval of diesel vehicles (fro
180 to 80 mg/km for diesel), bringing them closer to thos
allowed for petrol vehicles (60 mg/km). (see appendi
2.6.1.7 for details of thresholds for the various standards)
Such a reduction was made possible by th
implementation of post-treatment systems such as NO
traps or SCR (Selective Catalytic Reduction). The NOx tra
is a chemical system that traps nitrogen oxides to allo
them to be reduced to neutral gases. It has been fitted t
certain diesel passenger cars sold by Renault Group i
Europe since September 2015. The SCR (Selectiv
Catalytic Reduction) technology works to reduce nitroge
oxides into water and nitrogen by injecting urea.
At the same time, the identification of significan
differences between emissions measured in real use an
in the laboratory or approval led the Europea
Commission to define a real-use test protocol, introduce
with the Euro 6d-temp standard (RDE, Real Drivin
Emissions protocol). Without waiting for these ne
standards, Renault Group had, starting in July 2015, studie
the implementation of improvements on all of its Euro 6
diesel production aiming to further limit emissions i
customer use. These improvements were gradually rolle
out from August 2016 on the diesel vehicles in the range.
The roll-out of Euro 6 standards is a major step forward i
the reduction of pollutant emissions from intern
combustion engine vehicles. As mentioned above, thes
standards have introduced measurements under real an
variable driving conditions (RDE protocol) of th
emissions of pollutants such as nitrogen oxides o
particles in addition to the measurements made in th
laboratory based on the standardized test cycle. B
nature, these cannot cover the very wide variety o
customer usage: driving and weather conditions, drivin
style, vehicle load, etc. This is why Renault, for sever
years, has supported the European approach aiming a
implementing measurements under real drivin
conditions (RDE protocol) in addition to implementing th
198 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
new WLTP laboratory test procedure, more representative
of average customer use and the diversity of vehicle
equipment than the NEDC cycle.
The adaptation of Renault Group vehicles to these new
standards required an ambitious program of investments
and development.
The Euro 6d temp phase has been applicable since
September 2017 for new models (new types) and since
September 2019 for all new vehicles (all types) (see
Appendix 2.6.1.7). The European Commission
simultaneously introduced the new laboratory test
procedure, WLTP, which has been applicable since
September 2017 for new models and since September
2018 for all new vehicles.
The final Euro 6d stage came into force between January
2020 (new types) and January 2021 (all types) for
passenger vehicles and in January 2022 for commercial
vehicles.
In order to meet Euro 6d temp and Euro6 d final standards,
SCR technology, which Renault has used on its TRAFIC
and MASTER commercial vehicles since the Euro 6b
standards, has been fitted to the entire range of diesel
passenger cars in Europe. This SCR technology, more
constraining in use, with the installation on the vehicle of a
urea tank to be refilled regularly, can nevertheless reduce
nitrogen oxides with increased effectiveness over an
extended engine operating range. For the final Euro6d
stage, the diesel emission treatment system was
enhanced with a second SCR system to improve NOx
treatment efficiency even more across all engine
operating ranges.
For the petrol engines in the range, the tri-functional
catalysis system simultaneously treats the oxidation of
unburnt hydrocarbons (HC) and carbon monoxide (CO)
and the reduction of nitrogen oxides. The various stages
of Eurox standards have been achieved by improving the
engine settings and the load of precious metals in
catalysts. From the Euro 6d-temp stage onwards, direct
fuel injection engines have been fitted with a particulate
filter. As with diesel, this filter allows a drastic reduction in
the number of particles emitted by vehicles. With the
Euro6D final stage, all petrol engines have been fitted with
l a particulate filter.
In other markets, Renault adapts the technical definitions
of its powertrains to fit local specifics (fuel quality, climate,
dust, etc.) in such a way as to ensure each vehicle’s
compliance with applicable regulations in the country in
which it is sold. In addition to strict regulatory compliance,
the Group capitalizes on lessons learned in Europe to fulfill
the growing expectations throughout the world, that
pollutant emissions during customer use are better taken
l
into account and controlled.
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
'14 '15 '16 '17 '
Euro6B
Standards
Standards NEDC
VP NOx trap
Diesel PF
SCR VU
PF o
Petrol
including LPG
PF: Particulate filter
GDI: Gasoline direct injection engines
NEDC: New European Driving Cycle
NOx: Nitrogen oxides
RDE: Real Driving Emissions
Internal governance processes aim to analyze and control
discrepancies between the consumption and emissions
values certified in the laboratory on a standardized cycle,
and values measured during customer use:
● systematic measurement, for all models in the range, of
emissions under real driving conditions using the “RDE”
protocol (a “customer” driving cycle has also been used
internally for many years to evaluate the consumption of
our vehicles during use by the customer);
● analysis of differences between the results of these
internal measurements, other measurements of the
same type taken by third parties (government
commissions, NGOs, specialist companies such as
Emissions Analytics® in particular) and the emission
values certified in the laboratory on a standardized
cycle, and cross-checking of this information against
feedback gained from customer satisfaction surveys;
● monthly follow-up of the files brought up by market
surveillance in a committee in charge of facilitating the
treatment of questions relating to the conformity of our
vehicles in terms of fuel consumption and polluting
emissions. This committee is chaired by two members
of the Board of Management: the Director of Corporate
Engineering and the Director of Quality and Customer
Satisfaction.
i
Reduction of pollutant emissions
from electric vehicles
AIR
i
Electric vehicles form a major strand of the Group’s
strategy to combat atmospheric pollution. Once they
reach a significant proportion of all vehicles on the road,
they will contribute to improving air quality in urban
29 Excluding consumable parts
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
8 '19 '20 '21 '22 '23
02
Euro6C Euro6D final
Euro6D-temp
RDE
+ WLTP
SCR VP SCR x 2
GDI PF on all petrol
CR: Selective Catalytic Reduction
C: Passenger Car
CV: Light Commercial Vehicle
LTP: Worldwide Harmonized Light Vehicles Test Procedure
reas29 because they do not generate emissions during
se. The Renault brand plans to electrify 100% of new
ehicle models by 2025. The action plan to achieve this
mbition is detailed in part 2.3.2.1.2.
abin air quality
AIR
ir in the cabin is a complex blend of air drawn from outside
he vehicle, which supplies the heating and air conditioning
ystems, and emissions from materials within the cabin.
enault Group takes these two components into
onsideration when designing its vehicles in order to control
heir impact on the quality of cabin air and to maintain the
ealth and comfort of passengers.
reatment of external air drawn
nto the cabin
AIR
hen driving, the main influence on the quality of cabin air
that of external air, given the fast air renewal flow
equired for passenger comfort (200 m3/h on average).
herefore, as soon as it designs its vehicles, Renault
nsures that the architecture enables an air treatment
ystem to be fitted. Two types of technical solutions are
plemented:
. cabin particle filter (also known as a pollen filter): made of
non-woven fibers, it is designed to trap the smallest
particles, with an effectiveness of over 85% efficiency
from 2.5μm in diameter and 95% for particles above 10μm;
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 199

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
2. combination cabin filters: there are pollen filters with
layer of activated charcoal grains adde
In addition to particles, the activated charcoal trap
gases, including aromatic compounds and nitroge
dioxide. These filters are sized to trap an average o
more than 85% of these compounds on the Renaul
vehicles on which they are fitted.
The technical solutions applied to each vehicle are th
result of a compromise between a number o
requirements (treatment efficiency, defogging, noise an
energy consumption), and vary according to range an
equipment level. All passenger cars worldwide sold unde
the Renault, Dacia, Alpine and Renault Samsung Motor
brands are fitted with a cabin particulate filter a
standard. Most of the latest passenger car model
marketed under the Renault brand in Europe come wit
combination filters as standard on all versions.
However, any Renault, Dacia or Renault Samsung Motor
customer whose vehicle is not initially fitted with
technical air treatment solution from the outset an
requiring such a solution will be able to obtain thi
equipment through additional Renault after-sales service
Emissions from materials within
the cabin
AIR
When the vehicle is stationary and exposed to sunligh
the presence of volatile chemical substance emission
from materials in the cabin may become overbearin
when compared with the quality of the air outside. Renaul
has therefore set itself the objective of managing thes
emissions in order to minimize their impact on passenge
health and comfort.
Thus, since 2009, all materials within all internal vehicl
parts (cabin and trunk) whose total weight within th
vehicle is over 100 g have been subject to specification
deployed to all relevant suppliers, in an effort to manag
emissions levels from the main categories of volatil
organic compounds.
Renault also ensures that any odors caused by the mai
contributors to the vehicle’s atmosphere are limited. Thi
is assessed by a panel of experts who are specificall
trained in Renault’s own methods, based on olfactor
descriptors and an understanding of odor levels as set ou
by the methods of IAP-Sentic®, a consultancy fir
specializing in odors (and a subsidiary of the Burgea
group).
30 Chemical products classified as “Priority 1” (PR1) by Renault for
(carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic) substances or substances
higher than the thresholds defined by Renault standard 00-10-050 on
31 February 2021
200 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
2.3.2.3.2. Substance risk
.
management
HEALTH
This year, Renault Group achieved its objective of
reducing the number of hazardous chemicals30 used on
Group sites by 20% over six years (2016-2022) (and by 68%
between 2010 and 2022). The Group has therefore set itself
a new target: a 50% reduction between 202131 and 2030.
Protecting the health of workers and consumers as well as
ecosystems led legislators to impose restrictions on the
use of hazardous substances in the workplace and in
products. Starting in 2003, the European automotive
industry has largely eliminated the use of heavy metals as
a result of the End-of-Life Vehicles Directive (2000/53/EC).
In the European Union, the introduction of the
Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of
Chemicals (REACH 1907/2006) regulation in 2007
heightened awareness of chemical risks and prompted
an increase in the number of restrictions and utilization
precautions. Many countries around the world follow the
EU with similar regulations. Efforts to improve the
protection of human health and the environment are also
being promoted at the global level by the United Nations,
in particular in connection with the Stockholm Convention
on Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP) and the
International Panel on Chemical Pollution (IPCP). Other
regulations that are less relevant to the automotive sector
, are also emerging, for example in relation to biocides or
cosmetics.
Renault Group has an organization dedicated to the
management of dangerous substances, capable of
taking into account regulations on substances as well as
proactive anticipation policies. The three divisions
devoted to this activity support the roll-out of initiatives in
Renault Group’s day-to-day processes:
● in collaboration with the departments responsible for
occupational health and working conditions, the
Industrial Hygiene and Chemical Risks Division
manages workers’ exposure to chemical risks at all
Renault Group production, engineering and logistics
sites around the world. It monitors the chemicals present
in the formulations delivered to Renault Group and
verifies the classification and labeling of the chemical
products used on site and also ensures compliance with
the Product Safety Data Sheets provided by suppliers. It
provides an initial assessment of the chemical risk in
accordance with generic use conditions. In addition, it
alerts and coordinates the engineering centers and the
sites if products containing priority risk substances are
used so that they can look for technical solutions to
eliminate them. Finally, it carries out monitoring work on
chemicals within the environment through the collection
of samples and the analysis of the pollutants present at
workstations. This expert division was created in
the 1960s;
replacement. This category includes products containing category 1a/1b CMR
isted in Annexes XIV and XVII of the European REACH regulation in concentrations
rohibited or restricted substances.
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
● the Materials Engineering division controls the use of
substances in vehicle design and anticipates the
banning of the most substances several years before
they are banned by regulation. It monitors substances
contained in vehicles based on information declared by
suppliers using the IMDS (International Material Data
System) system, shared with 35 international carmakers.
It enables Renault Group to meet the information and
transparency obligations under regulations (REACH, the
European directive on waste, and now the financial
directives). It steers the search for alternative technical
solutions enabling the elimination of priority risk
substances by relying on relays within each branch of
engineering (vehicle, mechanics, after-sales), and
reinforces this approach with its counterparts both
within and outside the Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi
Alliance. It defines and steers compliance actions in the
concerned entities, anticipates default risks upstream of
the supply chains and designs ways to transform
regulatory constraints into economic and competitive
opportunities;
● the After-sales Regulatory Compliance Division checks
with suppliers that parts, accessories and other
products sold by after-sale teams comply with
applicable regulations and make any substitutions, if
required.
l
As part of a preventive and pre-emptive approach, since
the 1960s, Renault Group has been replacing substances
identified as toxic and hazardous to the environment
found in the chemicals used at its plants and, since the
early 2000s, those found in materials used. Renault has
drawn up two lists of substances prioritized for replacement,
for chemicals and materials respectively, which comprise, in
particular, CMR (carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic)
substances, substances of very high concern and subject to
prior authorization (appendix XIV of the REACH regulations),
as well as substances whose use is not yet restricted, but
which Renault Group would like to see banned at a global
level.
These two lists are respectively described in two
separate standards: Renault Group’s standard 00-10-050
“Substances” for chemical products and standard RNES-
B-0027 common to Renault and Nissan for automotive i
parts. These standards ban the use of hazardous i
substances and substances of concern, list substances
for which substitution is a priority, and require suppliers to
declare the substances used in their parts and
preparations. In calls for tenders, Renault Group explicitly
asks suppliers to comply with these standards. Their
application is enforced by each of the three competent
divisions.
In line with regulations, Renault adheres to a policy of
transparency toward its professional and private customers.
In addition to standard substances and those with
identified risks, Renault Group pays close attention to the
potential health effects of innovative materials, such as
nanomaterials.
32 With the exception of certain versions of the Kangoo, Trafic and Master vans, a
categories from the rest of the range and are subject to specific noise emission
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
.3.2.3.3. Noise
02
anufacturing
NOISE
oise is a complex subject that involves a wide range of
actors such as type and power of noise sources by
ctave band, directivity, the impact of buildings,
opography of locations, weather, etc. For the comfort of
esidents living near its production facilities, Renault takes
oise measurements at the property line that exceed
egulatory requirements.
he Group makes active efforts to limit and reduce noise
ollution from its activities by working to control “noise” at
xisting and new facilities, right from the project phases,
egardless of whether they are linked to a new vehicle or a
ew building. The Group aims to do this by conducting
xtensive studies on the impact of noise
3D modeling), by selecting high-performance materials
ith this goal in mind, and by implementing
oundproofing measures. These measures are focused on
ll types of extraction chimneys, boilers, metal drops and
gistics-related activities, which generally constitute the
ain sources of external noise across our industrial sites.
ehicle use
NOISE
ll vehicles marketed by Renault in Europe in 2022 have
oad noise emissions of 72 dB(A) or less32, in accordance
ith European regulation 540/2014/EC. The vast majority
lso comply with the 70 dB(A) by the second phase of this
egulation, applicable to all vehicles produced since July
022. The Group is already preparing for the third phase,
hich will lower the permissible level for most passenger
ars to 68 dB(A) in July 2024. This includes work on
proving tire noise, engine acoustic radiation and
sulation and exhaust system attenuation.
ith a certified noise level well below 68 dB(A) Renault
lectric vehicles already meet the limits applicable
tarting in July 2024 nearly two years in advance, thus
ontributing to the reduction of ambient noise and the
uality of life in urban areas. In addition, they produce a
et improvement in users’ comfort: the noise inside an
lectric vehicle is approximately 10 dB lower than that of
n internal combustion engine vehicle.
t the international level, the regulations concerning
ehicle noise are most often based on European
egulations, possibly adopted a few years later. The
ehicles marketed by Renault Group outside Europe,
hich have noise levels comparable to their European
ersions, therefore often anticipate locally applicable
egulations by several years.
well as the Alpine A110 and Megane RS sports cars, which are in separate
imits.
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 201

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
2.3.2.4. Ecosystems and biodiversity
Conduct 20 preliminary biodiversity assessments
at the Group’s sites
Reduce the Group’s external water supply
per vehicle produced
Reduce the quantity of toxic metals (nickel and zinc) in the
liquid effluents of the Group’s plants (2)
per vehicle produced
(1)Scope: all manufacturing sites and the main tertiary, logistics and en
network (see reporting scope described in appendix 2.6.1.3).
(2)See definition and calculation method in the methodology comments
0.98 g/vehicle. Indicator audited by the independent third party at a rea
2.3.2.4.1. Biodiversity EFPD13
BIODIV.
The 2019 IPBES 33 Global Assessment Report o
Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services warned of a
unprecedented and increasing rate of species extinctio
This report identified and ranked the five direct drivers o
change in nature with the largest relative global impact
(1) changes in land and sea use; (2) direct exploitation o
natural resources; (3) climate change; (4) pollution an
(5) invasive alien species.
Study of dependencies and impacts
Based on the method of a specialized consulting fir
Renault Group conducted an analysis of th
dependencies and impacts of its activities on biodiversit
and ecosystems.
Dependencies: Renault Group identified dependencies o
its activities on ecosystem services throughout its valu
chain. The main ecosystem services needed for Renault’
business model are the following:
● water, mineral and biotic and abiotic energy suppl
services;
● climate regulation, water and waste treatment services
● cultural services.
Impacts: Through its own activities, its value chain and th
use of its products, Renault Group contributes, to
greater or lesser extent, to the 5 pressures on glob
biodiversity identified by the IPBES.
33 Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosy
202 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
FPD8a EFPD8b EFPD13 DV5a
Status at year-end
tarting point 2023 target(1) 2022
2021 20 preliminary 21
assessments conducted
2013 -15% 4%
2013 -35% -21%
ineering sites of Renault Group, excluding establishments in the RRG commercial
n liquid discharges in section 2.6.1.3. The 2013 value is 1.24 g/vehicle. The 2022 value is
onable level of assurance for the 2022 financial year.
In addition to this first study, in order to better understand
the impact of its own activities on biodiversity and
ecosystems, the Group set in 2021 the target of having 20
preliminary biodiversity assessments conducted by 2023.
These analyses will be entrusted to specialized consulting
firms. As of the end of 2022, this target was exceeded: a
total of 21 preliminary assessments had been conducted
at the sites with the greatest perceived stakes
. (prioritization of sites located close to natural sites and/or
with a large proportion of natural surface within its land
: area). This work highlighted the ecological sensitivities of
each site and identified actions to encourage biodiversity
at our sites.
Of these 21 preliminary assessments, 5 highlighted
important issues, including the presence of protected
species such as the amphibian vole, the marsh epipactis
and the brown howler monkey.
,
Commitments and actions
Renault Group joined the act4nature initiative in 2018 to
contribute to the protection, enhancement and
restoration of biodiversity. The Group is thus committed to
avoiding, reducing and offsetting its impacts, aiming for
no net loss or a net gain of biodiversity.
In 2021, Renault Group prepared a positive initial
assessment of the progress of its initiatives and stepped
up its actions in favor of biodiversity. These new public
commitments are S.M.A.R.T. (Specific, Measurable,
Additional, Realistic and Time-bound) and are recognized
by the act4nature steering committee of companies,
business networks, environmental NGOs and scientific
l bodies.
tem Services IPBES.
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
Summary of actions to reduce the Group’s impacts on bio
Drivers of 1. Changes in land and 2. Direct exploitation 3. Cli
biodiversity sea use of natural ch
loss (IPBES) resources
In our own Reducing at source Strengthening eco- Reduc
operations and recovering waste design and the emissi
(see 2.3.2.2) circular economy factori
(see 2.3.2.2) vehicl
Monitoring the
artificial land cover
indicator (see 2.3.2.4.3)
On our value Active member of the Reducing the use of Reduc
chain Global Platform for virgin materials (see footpri
Sustainable Natural all targets in section purch
Rubber (GPSNR), 2.3.2.2) materi
Signing the global
moratorium on
seabed mining,
Defining a strategy for
biobased materials
In our own operations
To reduce the footprint of its own operations on
biodiversity, Renault Group applies specific protection
measures.
Industrial projects involving the construction or extension
of plants are assessed to measure their impact on existing
ecosystems. For example, in 2022, as part of a project to
extend the car park at the Maubeuge site (France), a
characterization and delimitation of wetlands was
launched to assess the feasibility of the project.
Biodiversity issues are therefore taken into account in
projects, and the Group has integrated biodiversity
protection into its internal environmental guidelines
applicable to all sites, regardless of local regulations.
At the Curitiba site in Brazil, Renault devotes 37% of its space
(2.5 million m2) to protecting a primary forest area. This virgin
forest, made up mainly of araucaria trees, a species of pine
threatened with extinction and protected under Brazilian
law, is home to more than 170 species of animal.
Regarding the industrial and tertiary sites, the HSEE
Department produced guides containing actions that can
be deployed at all the sites to protect biodiversity. They
are based on lessons learned from preliminary
assessments. Roll-out is underway.
In 2022, 15 of the Biodiversity project pilots completed the
“Fresque de la biodiversité” training.
Outside our own operations:
● Natural rubber: Since 2019, Renault has been a member
of the Global Platform for Sustainable Natural Rubber
(GPSNR), an initiative aiming to improve the
environmental and socioeconomic performance of the
natural rubber sector, which notably includes actions to
fight against deforestation. In 2022, Renault Group:
published its Sustainable Natural Rubber Policy, a set of
●
commitments aligned with the objectives of the GPSNR;
gained a seat on the platform’s executive committee;
●
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
iversity and ecosystems
ate 4. Pollution 5. Invasive alien 02
nge species
ng COe Reducing pollutant Identifying fauna and
2
ns from our emissions into flora (21 biodiversity
s and ecosystems: air, water, preliminary
s (see 2.3.2.1) soil (see 2.3.2.3.1, assessments
2.3.2.4.2, and 2.3.2.4.3) performed between
2021 and 2022)
ng the carbon Avoiding pollutants in
t of our sourcing
sed parts and
Policy: Green
ls (see 2.3.2.1)
purchasing guideline
finances, alongside Michelin, an “Agroforestry
●
Capacity Building Thailand” project. This field project
aims to engage, by 2025, 1,000 smallholder farmers
producing natural rubber in southern Thailand. The
objective is to reduce the environmental impacts of
plantations while increasing the economic resilience
of farmers, notably improving their food security.
Biobased materials: In 2022, Renault Group has adopted
a Biobased Materials Strategy to ensure that the
expected gains in terms of carbon footprint reduction
do not lead to undesirable effects on humans and
ecosystems, such as competition with food,
deforestation, loss of marine and terrestrial biodiversity,
and pollution. We require potential suppliers to
demonstrate that risks have been identified, assessed
and controlled. Each proposed material must now be
approved by a dedicated internal committee.
Strategic ores: In 2022, Renault Group joined a group of
NGOs, scientists, and companies calling for a global
moratorium on deep-sea mining until it is scientifically
proven that it can be done in a sustainable way.
The oceans and their ecosystems play a crucial
role both in climate regulation and in generating
livelihoods for women and men, (Details:
https://www.noseabedmining.org/).
Occasional tree-planting actions. For example, in 2022
in Spain, the Renault Foundation collaborated with the
Natural Heritage of the Castilla y León Region to
organize the planting of more than 2,000 trees near the
Valladolid factory. The factory’s employees and their
families (about 200 people) took part in this
reforestation. This action will help to improve the
region’s plant biodiversity and thus strengthen the
existing animal species. In Colombia, efforts are being
made to reforest the Salto de Tequendam forests. The
“El Granja El Porvenir” project entrusts this task to
women from the communities around the sites. By
creating a new source of income, the project helps to
build the economic resilience of the participants and
enables them to acquire new skills while contributing to
a local environmental issue.
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 203

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
Beyond these specific measures in our own operation
and outside, protecting the biodiversity of species an
ecosystems also requires reducing pollutant emissions i
ecosystems (air, water, soil: see 2.3.2.3.1, 2.3.2.4.2, an
2.3.2.4.3), reducing pressure on resources and forest
producing less waste (see 2.3.2.2), and reducin
greenhouse gas emissions (see 2.3.2.1). Renault’
continuous efforts to prevent and mitigate th
environmental impact of its activities and products hel
to combat ecosystem depletion in this way.
2.3.2.4.2. Water consumption
and quality
WATER
EFPD8a EFPD11a
Preserving water resources is an ongoing concern fo
Renault, both to ensure long-term supply and to reduce it
impact on ecosystems. For this reason, the Group has se
a goal of minimizing the impact of its activities on thi
precious resource through the implementation of th
following five objectives:
● reduce water consumption at source as well as th
quantities of wastewater through well-designe
processes and optimized management. For example, i
vehicle surface treatment, which is one of the majo
causes of water consumption in an automotive plant, th
principle of reverse-cascade rinsing of baths and stoppin
the rinse water flow between each body (which limit
contamination from one bath to the next by carryove
enable a reduction at the source of the quantities of wate
used as well as the waste to be treated;
● reuse water where possible for the same use: cooling in
closed circuit, increasing the lifespan of bath
(to reduce the draining frequency), etc.;
● recycle water for other compatible uses, with or withou
additional treatment. For example, the Sofasa plan
(Colombia) recycles saline concentrates from revers
osmosis water to the flushing of toilets and the wate
curtains (air cleaners) of paint pits, which facilitates th
reduction of the quantity of water consumed as well a
that of waste discharged;
● minimize the impact of residual waste on th
environment through efficient and strictly controlle
treatment processes;
● control the risk of accidental pollution of surface wate
by installing the means needed to confine water fro
accidental spillages and that used for firefighting. Sinc
late 2015, the Tangier plant, designed not to discharg
any industrial waste, has accordingly had a basin tha
enables it to confine any accidental pollution and avoi
204 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
its discharge into the environment and to treat rainwater
drained on the site by decantation.
Reducing industrial effluents
, Among measures used to meet its objectives of reducing
water abstraction and the discharge of pollutants into the
environment, Renault places a particularly strong
emphasis on the recycling of industrial effluents: the
wastewater generated by the manufacturing process is
treated in a manner that allows this same water to be
transformed into a resource of sufficient quality to be
re-used in the same process.
In the powertrain plants, the recycling of industrial
effluents consists in separating the distillate that can then
be reintroduced into the process, from the concentrate
(loaded with oil) that will be directed to the appropriate
waste treatment channel.
In the body assembly plants, the recycling technology is
more complex because the water used in the
manufacturing process (surface treatment and
electrocoating) must be of very high quality. The treated
waste is subjected to a reverse osmosis process
(a membrane-based water demineralization process),
then an evapo-concentration process (high concentration
of effluent through different evaporation stages),
allowing most of the water to be reused in industrial
processes and minimizing the quantities of waste
generated.
The Tangier body assembly plant in Morocco is equipped
) with the most advanced technologies available for
recycling wastewater from the manufacturing process.
Following the additional investments made in 2015 to
increase the volume of industrial effluents recycled and
thus keep pace with the increase in the site’s production
rate, the volume of water saved amounted to nearly
280,000 m3 per year on average. The Tangier site is the
plant with the lowest external water supply ratio (at 1.5 m3
per vehicle produced in 2020) in accordance with the
target assigned when it was founded.
Another lever that has been implemented in the bodywork
factories is the modification of vehicle surface
treatments in the paint departments. It consists of
replacing the products used with products containing
fewer toxic metals (removal of nickel). This change has
environmental benefits: reduction of Nickel flows
discharged outside our sites and reduction of water
consumption in the surface treatment process.
Since 2021, two factories have already implemented this
change, and a third is planned for 2023.
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
The ongoing crisis in the supply of parts (including
electronic components) continued to weigh on the water
consumption indicator per vehicle, with a level of
production of vehicles and mechanical components
equivalent to 2021. The frequent, and sometimes
prolonged, breaks in production activity once again
impacted the operation of industrial processes (such as
surface treatment and cataphoresis lines), generating a
large number of treatment bath emptyings, as well as
more frequent cleaning/disinfection of sensitive
equipment (air cooling towers, domestic hot water
circuits) from a health risk point of view (legionella). With a
still significant "heel" effect due to the overcapacity of the
Group's industrial sites compared with the volumes
produced in 2022, the external water supply indicator per
vehicle produced remains at a high level at 4.7 m3/vehicle.
For the second year, the discharges of toxic metals from
the Group’s industrial activity are monitored by the
indicator summing the quantities of Zinc and Nickel
reported to the vehicle produced. These two substances
are the main metals emitted during surface treatment
activities aimed at the anti-corrosion treatment of
vehicles. On all industrial vehicle production sites,
physicochemical treatment methods are implemented in
order to reduce the quantities of metals released. The
purification performance of these water treatment
facilities is regularly monitored. The change in process
mentioned above (modification of the surface treatment)
will also contribute to reducing nickel emissions at source.
(
E w s i d w i w g s w a r nnnauuxernraaaacdiioprttdnnlttttfuewuupeeeeakwsrndlorrrrinctyna,,derreagtikwsaelslar.ter,
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
reakdown of water supplies by source
02
.9% 3.0%
ainwater Internal recycling
of industrial wastewater
6.2% 33.9%
urface water Drinking water from
aterways, external network
onds, etc.)
4.5% 11.6%
round water Industrial water
from external network
cope: all manufacturing plants and the main Renault Group tertiary, logistics and
ngineering sites, excluding establishments in the RRG commercial network (reporting
cope described in appendix 2.6.1.3).
xternal water supply (√)
11,500 11,391 4.85
4.8
4.8
11,000 4.75
10,679
4.7
4,7
4.7
0,500 4.65
4.6
10,077
10,048
0,000 4.55
4,5 4.5
9,500 4.45
4.4
9,000 4.35
2013 ... 2020 2021 2022
Total external water External water supply
supply (x 1,000 m³) per vehicle (in m³/vehicle)
) Indicators verified by the independent third-party organization at a reasonable level
f assurance over fiscal year 2022.
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 205

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
2.3.2.4.3. Soil and water tables EFPD8a EFP
Total surface area for sites and impervious
Total area (in hectares)
Impervious area (in hectares)
Impervious areas (as a % of the total surface area)
(1)Reporting scope described in appendix 2.6.1.3. No scope correction.
Soil and water tables are environments that ca
potentially allow pollution from past activities t
SOIL come into contact with targets to be protecte
(humans, natural environments, etc.).
Renault has therefore implemented a policy to preven
pollution of these environments and, when past pollution i
suspected, implements specific management strategies
This policy is applied to all Group facilities presenting
potential pollution risk, i.e. operational industrial facilities
former industrial facilities converted to other uses, as wel
as the Renault Retail Group (RRG) commercial network
Renault aims to maintain in-house skills in prevention o
soil pollution and remediation.
In 2022, the manufacturing sites, as well as the mai
engineering, logistics and head office sites of Renaul
Group 34 represented a total area of 3,848 hectares, o
which 48.8% are impervious areas such as buildings
parking lots, roads and paths. Total surface area and th
proportion of impervious surfaces did not chang
significantly from the previous year, at constant scope.
Prevention
The prevention policy at industrial sites i
based on three key tools. A risk-rating grid i
SOIL used to assess the level of pollution preventio
and reinforce it if necessary by prioritizin
required rehabilitation work.
In the case of new production facilities, the soi
prevention guide describes the best techniques t
implement in each type of facility. Both of these tools ar
in use across all Renault industrial sites worldwide. Th
prevention policy ultimately relies on monitoring of th
quality of groundwater. This monitoring, which is carrie
out systematically when regulations so require (al
industrial sites in France), is also carried out voluntarily b
Renault when potential sources of pollution ar
identified, to spot any movement of pollutants t
sensitive areas and to take appropriate measures a
early as possible.
34 Environmental reporting scope described in appendix 2.6.1.3.
206 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
11d
area(1)
2022 2021 Change over 1 year
3,848 3,904 -1.43%
1,877 1,915 -1.95%
48.8 % 49.0% -0.52%
For several years, all sites in the RRG
commercial network (France and Europe) have
SOIL been equipped with pollution prevention tools,
and oil and fuel are now stored above ground or
in double-wall tanks fitted with alarms and
retention tanks.
Remediation
The management of past subsoil pollution
hinges on a risk assessment based on the
SOIL source-vector-target concept and aims to
ensure the suitability of the subsoil for the
planned or identified uses.
There are several stages to the pollution management
system:
● a historic and documentary study, including an analysis
of the site’s vulnerability, was conducted for operational
industrial sites, former industrial sites converted to other
uses and the RRG commercial network. It is updated as
necessary. This study enables the identification of
potential sources of pollution and the evaluation of the
vulnerability level at the facility and in its immediate
surroundings;
● a physical diagnostic analysis of the soils is conducted
based on the results of the historic and documentary
research;
● if the diagnostic analysis confirms the presence of
pollution sources, a quantitative evaluation of the health
risks is performed in order to assess the exposure risk for
site users and the immediate surroundings (workers,
residents, school children, etc.);
● remediation operations may be started depending on
the results of the two preceding steps. These operations
are carried out by specialized service providers with
recognized expertise, under the supervision of the
Renault soil specialist.
RRG uses the same assessment method to
clean contaminated soils on former oil and fuel
SOIL storage sites, even when this contamination is
due to the former owner.
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
2.4 Our social an
commitment
2.4.1 Toward sustainable,
mobility EFPD14a EF
Although access to mobility remains a major aspiration
and a necessity for millions of people worldwide,
technology and the ways in which vehicles are used are
changing rapidly with its electrification and the gradual
move from an economy of ownership to an economy
of use.
These new forms of mobility are dramatically changing
business models and uses. Carmakers alone cannot
redefine and shape tomorrow’s mobility. This is why
Renault Group works closely with various players who also
take on the subject: local and regional authorities, start-
ups, companies, universities, etc.
Objective: to offer solutions tailored to each individual’s
needs.
2.4.1.1. A “Made in Renault”
and ecosystem innovation
for sustainable mobility
EFPD14a
Renault Group has been committed to the development of
large-scale electric mobility for more than 10 years. A
pioneer in Europe, it announced the launch of a complete
range of four affordable 100% electric vehicles in 2009.
Promise kept from 2011. Since then, it has been renewing
and expanding its offering with electrified models
whether hybrids, plug-in hybrids or 100% electric. All new
models launched in 2022 are either electrically powered or
equipped with an electrified (hybrid) engine.
The Group’s objective is simple: to make electric mobility l
accessible to all by meeting everyone’s needs.
Electric mobility is the best immediately available
response to accelerate the energy transition, fight against
climate change and improve air quality in cities.
I
I
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
societal
02
safe and inclusive
D16a
. More than 10 billion “e-kilometers” already traveled
enault and electric vehicles represent more than 10
ears of unparalleled experience and expertise, validated
y more than 10 billion “e-kilometers” already covered.
enault Group, EV pioneer, currently stands as one of the
arket leaders in Europe. Today, it is a revolution that is
icking up pace. Renault is ready to take part, not only
ecause of its experience in this field, but also as a “long-
stablished vehicle manufacturer.” Its know-how in the
esign and start of sales of vehicles, the experience and
ensity of its network to market with the best advice and
o maintain and repair these vehicles, combined with its
lectrical know-how is a unique blend of the past and the
uture that allows us to support this acceleration with
onfidence.
he Renault brand thus offers a complete range of
lectric vehicles. Renault offers four passenger cars in
urope with E-Tech Electric technology: Twingo, Zoe,
angoo and Megane. Driving New Megane E-Tech Electric
eans benefiting from a reinvented experience where,
hanks to an agile platform dedicated solely to electric
ower (the Alliance’s CMF-EV platform), a dynamic
owertrain (new powertrain offering up to
60 kW of power and 300 Nm of torque). Driving pleasure is
mnipresent, in perfect alchemy with comfort. Without
ompromising safety, range (up to 470 km range
ccording to the WLTP standard) and charging
erformance thanks to innovative solutions applied to
oth the 40 and 60 kWh battery packs. Renault Megane
-Tech Electric has had a promising commercial start,
ith more than 40,000 orders already placed since its
unch, 75% of which are for premium versions and 85%
or the most powerful engine. The Renault brand’s range
f electric vehicles will be strengthened in the B segment.
he Renault 5 Prototype is a forerunner of a B-segment
aloon, which will be launched in 2024. 4EVER trophy,
evealed at the 2022 Paris Motor Show, is a forerunner of
he B-segment SUV, planned for 2025. These two vehicles
ill be based on the unprecedented CMF-BEV platform
nd will enable Renault Group to offer affordable electric
ehicles.
terms of commercial vehicles, Renault also offers a
ide range with the Kangoo van and the Trafic and
aster vans.
line with its ambitions to achieve a mix of more than
5% electrified vehicles in the sales mix by 2025, Renault is
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 207

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
increasing its share of electrified sales by +9 pts versu
2021. The E-Tech range (electric and hybrid) no
represents 39% of Renault passenger vehicle sales i
Europe in 2022, while the market average is around 31%
Launched in spring 2021, Dacia SPRING, the Dacia brand’
first electric vehicle, brought in almost 100,000 order
Dacia Spring was the 3rd-most sold 100% electric model i
Europe over the first three quarters of 2022.
For Renault Group, the electric vision goes far beyond th
car, which is why it created a fourth brand in January 202
Mobilize.
Mobilize’s ambition, through a very comprehensiv
integrated offering, is to contribute to a sustainable worl
by providing financial services, mobility services, as we
as services related to energy and data.
Building on partner ecosystems that are complementar
to our own, the brand wants to provide concrete solution
to promote ecological transition and develop mor
accessible mobility for people and goods, whether i
complex, congested urban environments or in rural areas.
Mobilize’s strength lies in its comprehensive offering o
mobility, energy and data. Knowing how to deal with thes
three subjects means optimizing technological solution
and therefore costs... toward zero carbon.
With Mobilize, Renault Group is positioning itself in the ne
world of mobility and is committed to achieving carbo
neutrality in Europe by 2040.
Examples of Mobilize’s contributions:
In the field of mobility, Mobilize encourages the transitio
from ownership to use.
Mobilize is developing two car-sharing solutions with thi
in mind: Zity by Mobilize and Mobilize Share.
Zity by Mobilize is a ‘free floating’ carpooling solutio
(no need to return to the starting point)
The vehicle fleet is 100% electric.
An app allows you to locate, unlock, and drop off th
vehicle and, of course, pay for the rental.
Zity by Mobilize is present in cities with more tha
500,000 inhabitants (currently Madrid, Paris, Lyon, an
Milan) and is aimed at people who have an immediat
need for transport for a short journey (a few minutes
kilometers).
Mobilize Share is complementary to Zity by Mobilize an
addresses different uses that can last longer (up to on
month).
Mobilize Share can cover:
● all the mobility needs in the dealership: replacemen
vehicles, test drives, short-term rental, etc.
● non-concession mobility solutions, such as car-sharin
in the city, with a partner or directly within a company.
This car-sharing service is a closed-loop service (th
starting and ending points are the same) for small an
medium-sized cities. It can start with only two or thre
vehicles.
208 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
Mobilize Share relies on its partner Glide, a start-up in the
Mobilize ecosystem providing:
● on-board technology (car-sharing box);
● off-board technology (app and back office);
. and an operational team that supports professionals in
the deployment of this activity.
The “Mobility 360” project, created with Uber, RATP and
BlaBlaCar, brings together experts who intend to use their
: complementary expertise and coordinate their approach
to propose simpler, greener, sustainable and shared
mobility solutions for cities and citizens.
● In the field of energy, the ambition is to make the electric
l vehicle part of everyday life.
An electric vehicle can be charged intelligently when
electricity is cheapest and least carbon-intensive, and it
can also become an energy source. This is the “vehicle-to-
grid” (V2G) system.
The energy stored in the car’s battery is fed back to the
grid when there is a surplus. For example, a vehicle could
supply energy to the city grid when the need for electricity
is greater than the supply and eventually supply the house
with energy.
Mobilize also develops innovative solutions to extend the
life of electric vehicle batteries.
Mobilize has entered into an agreement with Betteries, a
German start-up with a strong commitment to the circular
economy, to develop and assemble a mobile, modular,
multi-use energy system consisting of battery modules
from electric vehicles. Easily transportable, this system is
made up of one to four elements (betterPacks) of 2.3 kWh
and can thus reach a capacity of 9.2 kWh, equivalent to
the average consumption of a household over a day. It
offers the advantage of being zero-emission and silent
and points to the energy transition from transportable
electric generators to clean and mobile electric systems.
There are multiple uses and applications of this system
when connection to the electricity grid is impossible, such
as construction sites, food trucks, solar energy storage,
filming and events. The manufacture of this innovative
storage system began in 2022 at the Flins Refactory.
This plant is where Mobilize is primarily developing energy
storage solutions with the Advanced Battery Storage
project. It is the largest stationary energy storage device.
Ultimately, the project is set to reach a capacity of 70 MWh
across France and Germany.
After the plant in Douai (North of France) and Elverlingsen
(Germany), Mobilize has chosen to install 480 unused
Renault Zoe batteries at the Refactory in Flins (Yvelines,
France) for an additional capacity of 15 MWh.
The Group has also formed a partnership with Compagnie
Seine Alliance and the integrator GreenVision to electrify
a fleet of boats on the Seine using second-life batteries of
Renault electric vehicles.
As a pioneer in the development of “Smart Islands”,
Mobilize innovates to provide territories with a range of
solutions and achieve carbon neutrality.
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
After Belle-Ile-en-Mer (France) and Porto Santo (Portugal),
the aim now is to convert the Brazilian island of Fernando
de Noronha into a “smart island”. With electric cars,
charging stations powered by solar panels, and a way for
excess energy to be sent back to the grid, Mobilize has
implemented an energy management system designed
to preserve nature and help the local community.
B. Innovation developed through our strategic
partnerships
The automotive industry is undergoing fundamental
changes. Customers are moving away from owning a
vehicle to using mobility services. Territories are taking
the initiative to develop new modes of mobility that are
environmentally friendly, efficient and inclusive. Vehicles
are increasingly electrified, which creates new needs and
constraints for their users. With the creation of the
Mobilize brand, Renault Group is fully committed to
supporting these changes, with the ambition of
simplifying the lives of users of mobility services and being
a leading partner for the territories.
According to the UN, in 2050, the global population will
reach 9.8 billion people, with almost 70% living in urban
i
areas compared with 55% today, representing 2.5 billion
additional city dwellers. This forecast gives an indication
of the immense challenges to be faced in terms of quality
of life, inclusion, urbanization, housing, transport and
healthcare in cities, as well as accessibility to these new
forms of mobility outside of cities.
In terms of mobility, new uses and new technologies are
spreading, questioning the place and status of individual
cars ownership. The market is increasingly being
structured according to uses of consumers, who are
looking less for ownership of a vehicle, than for a
multimodal, innovative, connected, more ecological
offering suited to the diversity of their needs.
The city of the future will be smarter, more inclusive, more
connected and more collaborative. Vehicles that are
clean, silent and shared will travel through it. Personal
vehicles will share the road in the cities, as well as in rural
areas, with new forms of services based on usage:
carsharing, carpooling, on-demand vehicles (private-hire
vehicles, taxis, etc.) as well as robot vehicles.
Today in Europe, several car-sharing services operated by
Group partners use Renault electric vehicles. Renault
Group is the leader in electric car-sharing in Europe. More
than 12,000 electric vehicles are available to carsharing
users in most European capitals as well as in sparsely
populated suburban and rural areas. The Group adapts its
offering to the context and offers both free-floating and
closed-loop solutions.
The car is already electric and connected: tomorrow it
could also be autonomous, with the benefits of smoother,
more fluid traffic and improved safety. The development
of autonomous cars and shuttles will accelerate the
growth of electric, autonomous and shared mobility
services. They will promote complementarity between
modes of transport, multimodality and make the overall
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
ystem cleaner, safer, more accessible, more effective
nd more efficient.
02
ince 2017, Renault Group has been working with both
ublic and private partners to experiment with Renault
oe Cab prototypes for on-demand, electric, autonomous,
nd shared mobility services. The objective of these
rograms is to learn the needs of users and territories
ithin an ecosystem of mobility services. They are part of
rance’s national SAM project (Safety and Acceptability
f Autonomous Driving and Mobility) responding to the
VRA (Experimentation of Autonomous Road Vehicles)
all for projects from the ADEME (French Agency for
cological Transition) in connection with the Investing in
he Future (PIA) program.
ollowing a first phase of lessons learned led by Mobilize
nd the Research Department, the Paris–Saclay
utonomous Lab experimentation program underwent its
econd phase in 2022 with an extension of their field of
xperimentation and an opening up to new uses with
ptimized Renault Zoe Cabs. User-panelists were able to
egister, take advantage of this experimentation and
hare their feedback through a set of evaluations
cluded in the national SAM (Safety and Acceptability of
utonomous Driving and Mobility) program.
. An innovation designed with public players
he city of tomorrow will be innovative and adaptable
hile being respectful of the environment. The growth of
he urban population comes with countless challenges:
eveloping urban mobility while limiting pollution,
roviding solutions to climate change and for society’s
cological transition, optimizing water and energy
anagement, improving the quality of life of people,
ontributing to social cohesion, designing, building and
enovating buildings and neighborhoods.
enault Group contributes to collective thinking on
ustainable mobility systems in cities and particularly on
obility ecosystems.
ed by the Research Department in cooperation with greater
ouen, the EV4all project aims to offer a package of solutions
xisting and/or innovative) to decarbonize the everyday
obility of modest households living in rural areas.
he detailed analysis of these populations led to the
onclusion that a small electric vehicle, equipped with a
0-kWh battery, would cover their daily needs, especially
ince rural housing allows easy access to an electrical
utlet.
eyond technical sizing limited to what is strictly
ecessary, the challenge is also to devise financial
olutions for access to these vehicles without any initial
ontribution by proving their economic interest for the
ouseholds concerned and for the “operator”. Various
chemes involving greater Rouen, employers and the
ombination of new and second-hand vehicles are being
valuated. The goal is to build attractive proposals before
he forthcoming widespread implementation of low-
mission zones (ZFE) in French cities.
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 209

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
Renault Group also sponsors a number of academi
chairs that fuel this thinking, such as the Urban Logistic
Chair with Mines ParisTech, which since 2016 has bee
focused on inventing innovative and sustainable urba
logistics models.
Renault freely shares its expertise in this area vi
numerous thematic roundtables and seminars.
Academic partner
Connected cars and cybersecurity Fondation Mines Téléc
Télécom ParisTech
Electrified propulsion driving range Institut de Recherche e
performance Communications et Cy
(IRCCYN), École Central
Design of use-oriented urban systems Institut de Recherche
(Anthropolis) Technologique System
École Centrale Supelec
In-car lighting systems Institut Supérieur d’Opt
École Supérieure des T
Aéronautiques et de Co
Automobile (ESTACA),
Strate École de Design
Theory and methods of innovative Mines ParisTech
design
Supply Chain Ponts Paris Tech
Advanced Lattice Boltzman M2P2 Marseille – CERFA
understandings for multiphysics
simul. (ALBUMS)
Data to maximize value creation LABEX, Lyon Univ
Futur de l’industrie et du travail Mines Paritech,
Fabrique de l’Industrie,
Ecole de Paris du mana
Systèmes de systèmes - Institut Louis Bachelier
Energie & prospérité (X, ENSAE, etc.)
SIVALAB UTC, CNRS, Renault
210 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
D. An innovation jointly developed with the academic
world
Through the support that it provides for academic research,
Renault Group has taken on the challenges of bringing
researchers and professionals together to exchange ideas
with a view to developing the technological solutions and
services of the future and understanding the consumer
purchasing decisions of tomorrow.
Renault Group supports higher education institutions
through its commitment to academic chairs. Renault
experts are currently involved in support for 11 academic
chairs in high-value subjects.
Partners Creation date
m, Thalès, Valeo, Wavestone, Nokia 2017
2016
ernétique
Nantes
SNCF, RATP, GDF Suez, ALSTOM 2015
,
que, PSA, Valeo automotive lighting Renewed in 2019
chniques
struction
Dassault Systèmes, RATP, Renewed in 2019
Thales, Vallourec
Michelin, Louis Vuitton 2019
S Airbus, CS group, ECL, 2019
Université Aix-Marseille,
Sorbonne, Safran, Onera, Cerfcas
ENEDIS, Michelin, Eiffage, ACOEM 2021
Groupe Mäder, Kea partners, 2020
Theano Advisors, FaberNovel and
ement “Fabrique de l’Industrie” GRTgaz,
Orange, Michelin
AFD, ADEME, SNCF 2021
Renewed in 2021
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
The Institute for Sustainable Mobility (IMD): meeting
mobility challenges around the world
In July 2009, Renault Group and six ParisTech schools
signed a partnership agreement to create the Institute for
Sustainable Mobility (IMD).
Co-directed by Virginie Boutueil (Deputy Director of the
Laboratoire Ville Mobilité Transport at the Ecole des
Ponts) and Patrick Bastard (Director of Research, Renault
Group), the Institute is a dynamic research community
and a breeding ground for talent that relies on teams from
the following French engineering schools: Ecole des
I
Mines, École Polytechnique, Télécom Paris, Chimie Paris,
Arts et Métiers, and École Nationale des Ponts et
Chaussées. Each of these prestigious schools contributes
the skills of their laboratories and research teams.
The annual budget granted to the IMD by Renault allows
theses in four thematic areas to be funded:
● organization of mobility:
understanding interactions between territories,
●
infrastructures, and the various modes of transport;
identifying emerging systems with high potential;
●
analyzing frugal solutions for essential mobility
●
services.
● mobility business models:
specifying the viable economic models in the making
●
(including cohabitation with the current models and
all types of transport);
snalyzing the evolution of the automotive sector and
●
its governance Innovating within wider ecosystems
effectively;
innovating within wider ecosystems effectively.
●
● environment: Industrial, energy, and materials sectors:
identifying the international conditions for
●
transforming the current automotive value chain
towards alternative energy vehicles and new
mobilities;
evaluating the impacts of the development of the
●
sectors (including Hydrogen) on the environment
(climate, resources) via life-cycle analysis;
reinforcing exchanges with partners, communicating,
●
and positioning.
● disruptive technologies:
identifying the disruptions linked to technologies
●
(electrification, electricity storage, driving assistance,
etc.) and resulting from the requirements of
sustainable, responsible, and inclusive development; I
highlighting how technological developments in
●
l
infrastructure (physical and internet) can impact the
mobility ecosystem.
The IMD’s research areas are defined jointly by Renault
engineers and researchers from the various laboratories
in the academic network.
The research work can take various forms: bilateral i
contract between Renault and a laboratory, doctoral
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
heses, end-of-study internships (Master’s degree,
ngineer), etc.
02
enault’s long-term commitment allows it to undertake
ulti-year research programs, some of which capitalize on
eal expertise over very long periods. One example is the
obility observatory, which, year after year, accumulates a
ealth of information on mobility in major cities around the
orld. This means that around 100 major cities and
housands of factual data points can be used as a basis for
tudies on optimizing urban mobility.
addition to the ongoing studies, here are some concrete
xamples of studies discussed in 2022:
EV scale-up comparison: Norway/China;
European experimental & innovation policies;
ecosystem learning about mobility/energy, circular
economy in Europe;
conditions for monetizing data with third parties?
linking the service/hardware/SW cycles to maximize the
value/cost ratio for Renault and the company;
dynamic of spreading innovation, factors of
exuberance and enthusiasm in mobility services;
efficiency of mobility modes: which areas are relevant
for cars?
air quality: supporting local mobility policies;
EV services and impacts Life Cycle Assessment (LCA);
simplified LCA tool;
ESG materials and technology choices;
improved recharging performance and, in particular, in
the case of long distances (technology and user
experience).
ome of these studies have already been launched.
thers will be launched in 2023.
hile IMD has produced many results since its creation, it
as also allowed the recruitment of excellent engineers,
hus contributing to the transformation of Renault around
wo strong objectives:
. from the car to mobility services;
. towards sustainable and responsible mobility within
the territories in our various markets.
eDeCom Institute – Zero-carbon communicating vehicles
enault is one of the founding members and an associate
onor of VeDeCom, one of the IETs (Institutes for Energy
ransition) set up as part of the French government’s
vestment Plan for the Future (Plan d’investissement
’avenir). It is supported by the NextMove and several
cal authorities (Yvelines Departmental Council and the
ersailles Grand Parc and Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines city
uthorities).
eDeCom is an institute for shared and co-located
esearch into electric, autonomous and connected
ehicles and the mobility ecosystem built on
frastructures and services addressing new uses for
hared mobility and energy.
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 211

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
2.6 Appendices
2.6.1 Environmental appe
2.6.1.1. Methodological comments on the
For this second year of application of the Delegated Act of
Article 8 of the Regulation of the European Parliament
and of the Council 2020/852 of June 18, 2020, known as
“Taxonomy,” Renault Group defined the eligibility of its
Environmental Activity covered
objective by the Taxonomy Description of the Taxonomy
3.3 Low carbon-intensity Manufacturing, repairing, ma
manufacturing technology repurposing and upgrading l
for transport transportation vehicles, rollin
vessels.
Climate change 6.5 Transportation by The purchase, financing, rent
mitigation motorcycles, passenger operation of vehicles design
vehicles and light belonging to categories M1 a
commercial vehicles which fall within the scope of
No 715/2007 of the European
of the Council, or to category
wheel vehicles and four-whe
The scope of eligibility of activities is as follows:
● Revenues: sales of Automotive goods, sales of goods to
partners as well as rental income from assets and
interest income on Sales Financing transactions as
described in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements are eligible under sections 3.3 and 6.5 of the
Taxonomy. Other Automotive services, Sales Financing
and mobility services were not included;
● Investments (Capex): all acquisitions of intangible and
tangible fixed assets, as detailed respectively in
Note 10-A1 and Note 10-B to the Consolidated Financial
Statements are eligible because they contribute to the
design, manufacture, distribution of automotive goods
as well as their financing and rental of vehicles;
● Operational expenses (Opex): non-capitalized Research
and Development costs, as disclosed in Note 10-A2 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, represent the bulk
of eligible activities in addition to, for much smaller
amounts, variable, short-term or low-value rental
expenses not restated under IFRS 16 Leases, as disclosed
in Note 6-C to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Method used to determine the scope of activities with a
substantial contribution
Turnover
To determine the substantial contribution of eligible
vehicle-related activities, we analyzed sales figures based
on vehicle model and powertrain technology. For spare
parts, as we do not have the information system that
would allow direct identification of parts fitted to low-
emission vehicles, we estimated this turnover in
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
02
dices
axonomy
ctivities with respect to the climate change mitigation
bjective on the basis of the description of activities and
ACE codes. Renault Group’s activities are thus eligible
nder the following sections:
Associated NACE codes Corresponding Renault
activity (for information purposes)Group activities
ntaining, C29.1 Vehicle manufacture,
w-carbon repair and sale
stock and
l, leasing and H49.32, H49.39 and N77.11 Financing, leasing of vehicles
ted as
d N1, both of
egulation (EC)
arliament and
(two- or three-
l vehicles).
roportion to the "workshop" turnover achieved for low-
mission vehicles.
nvestments
o determine the substantial contribution of eligible
ehicle-related activities, we analyzed the Capex and
apitalized R&D expenditure based on vehicle model and
owertrain technology in the same way as for turnover. .
hese investments have been reserved for new low-
mission vehicle projects. Capital expenditure common to
oth electric and internal-combustion vehicles (such as
or equipment fitted on multiple models) has been
rorated for sales of low-emission vehicles in the medium-
erm sales plan.
perational expenditure
he allocation of operational expenditure to economic
ctivities followed the same logic as described for capital
xpenditure. Wherever possible, non-capitalized research
nd development costs have been directly allocated to
he vehicles. They have been included if the vehicles in
uestion make a substantial contribution to the climate
hange mitigation objective. We have not included non-
apitalized research and development costs directly
ttributable to vehicles that do not meet the selection
riteria. Non-capitalized research and development costs
hat were not clearly attributable to a particular vehicle
roject – notably upstream research projects – and other
perating costs have been included on a proportional
asis using allocation formulas similar to those used for
apital expenditure.
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 249

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
Method used to determine the KPIs
of aligned activities
Turnover
It was not possible to identify, in a conservative manner,
sub-scope of activity in which the DNSH criteria relating t
the prevention and control of pollution are verifiabl
Therefore, the aligned turnover is declared zero.
Opex and Capex
DNSH criteria for pollution prevention and control ca
only be verified on
● Research and Development costs, excluding operation
where substances of concern could be used, such a
the manufacture of prototypes;
Site
Batilly
Douai​
Flins​
Maubeuge​
Novo Mesto​
Palencia
Valladolid
Climate change adaptation
Under the TCFD (see 2.3.2.1.4.3), we carried out a climat
risk and vulnerability assessment to identify sites likely t
be affected by physical climate risks. The physical climat
risks we identified were assessed on the basis of the lif
of the asset concerned.
Sustainable use and protection of water resources an
marine resources
In all of the Group’s factories, the water resources neede
for vehicle production are used with a view t
sustainability and reducing the environmental footprint. I
addition to complying with applicable regulations and th
ban on using any non-renewable water source, th
factories are committed to reducing the quantities o
water needed to produce a vehicle (see water section
and to reducing toxic metal emissions that can impac
water resources (target of 35 % reduction in Ni and Z
emissions between 2013 and 2023). Strong actions hav
been implemented, such as:
● in the Douai and Palencia factories, replacement of pre
painting surface treatment technology with nickel-fre
technology;
● in the Maubeuge or Flins factories: recycling o
rainwater.
250 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
● Capex relating to development and industrialization
studies carried out by the suppliers appointed for the
manufacture of parts and equipment.
Methods used for checking DNSH criteria
. The necessary checks were carried out at vehicle
production sites where low-emission passenger cars and
light commercial vehicles offered by the Group's various
brands are produced. outside China.
The planned in-depth investigations could not, to date, be
carried out in China due to the health constraints put in
place by the Chinese authorities.
Country Vehicles produced
France Master ZE
France Megane 5 E-Tech Electric
France Zoe
France Kangoo ZE
Slovenia Twingo ZE
Spain Megane 4 E-Tech (PHEV)
Spain Twizy
Transition to a circular economy
The Group's eco-design standards applied to vehicles
and batteries, which allow for the frugal use of rare
materials, the integration of recycled materials, the
predisposition of vehicles to their dismantling and end-of-
life recycling (see 2.3.2.2).
95% of the mass of Group vehicles sold worldwide have
been recyclable or recoverable (see 2.3.2.2.1) since 2007. All
the low-emission vehicles that the Group finances, leases
or operates were put on the road after this date.
At the end of the life of the electric vehicles marketed by
the Group, their battery is collected and directed to a
second life or recycled following a diagnosis of its state of
health (see 2.3.2.2).
With regard to waste management, Renault Group and
the Group’s European factories producing low-emission
vehicles prioritize recycling by aiming to minimize any
landfill and have set ambitious targets for 2023 (base year
2013):
● reduce the amount of non-recycled waste per vehicle
produced by 30%;
● reduce the amount of hazardous waste generated per
vehicle produced by 19%;
● reduce the amount of mixed non-hazardous waste
generated by 26%;
● achieve 87% waste recovery.
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
Pollution prevention and control
Renault Group exercises precise control over the
chemicals used in industrial processes by carrying out I
permanent action to reduce the quantity and potential
harmfulness of the products used. Thus, between 2010
and 2022, the Group reduced the number of hazardous
chemicals used on Group sites by 68% (see 2.3.2.3).
All substances listed in Annexes I and II of the POP
(Persistent Organic Pollutants) Regulation are banned
from use in the Group (classified as black in internal
standard 00-10-050). Our substance standards require I
that parts do not contain mercury or mercury compounds
above the threshold of 0.1% m/m, or substances that
deplete the ozone layer. The other REACH hazardous
substances used are declared on www.Renault.com and
in the SCIP database.
The Group is proactive in banning "SVHC" substances in
new vehicle projects when an alternative solution exists.
Renault voluntarily agrees not to use "SVHC" substances
7 years ahead of their regulatory ban on average, by
contracting the RNES-B-0027 standard with its suppliers.
For example, Renault is taking the initiative to replace UV
absorbers that have been used to protect plastics from
aging in the sun (such as UV 320, 327, 328,
350 benzotriazoles) by banning them now.
By definition, low-emission vehicles meet the emission
thresholds for clean light-duty vehicles set out in Table 2
of the Annex to Directive 2009/33/EC of the European
Parliament and of the Council.
Specific criteria for activity 6.5 "Transport by motorbikes,
passenger cars and light commercial vehicles"
The low-emission vehicles that the Group finances, leases
or operates are all equipped with tires in external road
noise and resistance classes that comply with the
European requirements set out in EC Regulation 661/2009.
In 2022, 40 different tire references could be fitted to the
electric vehicles produced by the Group: 80% of them are
both energy class A or B and noise class A or B, which
places them, according to these criteria, in the 7.6% best
tire references recorded in the EPREL database. However,
the Group does not currently have information relating to
the references of the tires currently fitted to the fleet of
financed and leased vehicles, and therefore cannot make
a robust estimate of the turnover corresponding to this
criteria.
With a certified noise level well below 68 dBA, Renault
electric vehicles have met, since 2021, the external noise
limits applicable starting in 2024, thus contributing to the
reduction of ambient noise and the quality of life in urban
areas. All vehicles placed on the market by Renault in
Europe in 2021 therefore comply with European regulation
540/2014/EC applicable to vehicles certified since July
2016, which require a maximum of 72 dBA (see 2.3.2.3.3)
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
rotection and restoration of biodiversity and
cosystems
02
addition to the environmental impact studies
onducted in accordance with national and European
egulations, Renault Group is proactive in its defense of
iodiversity and ecosystems. (see 2.3.2.4.1).
erification of Minimum Social
afeguards
application of Article 18 of the European Taxonomy,
enault Group considers that the minimum safeguards
re defined by:
UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights;
Core Conventions of the International Labour
Organization (ILO);
OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and
Fundamental Rights at Work and the International Bill of
Human Rights.
ll these initiatives lead to the conclusion that Renault
roup meets the requirements of the minimum social
afeguards.
N Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
enault Group adheres to the 10 principles of the United
ations Global Compact (see 2.1.3).
ore Conventions of the International Labour
rganization
enault Group signed the global framework agreement
n social, societal and environmental responsibility of July
, 2013, which is a measure included in the vigilance plan
see 2.2.1).
ECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises -
undamental Rights at Work and the International Bill of
uman Rights
he Group's alignment with these principles is assessed
hrough the following initiatives:
Group Ethics Charter and its variations, approved by the
Renault Board of Directors on October 3, 2012, and
which is part of the ethics and compliance system (see
2.5.1.1);
Vigilance plan, covering the activities of Renault S.A.
and those of companies controlled directly or indirectly,
as well as the activities of subcontractors or suppliers
with whom an established commercial relationship is
maintained (see 2.2);
Second Global Framework Agreement “Working
together to build a Renault Group working environment”
of July 9, 2019;
Addendum to the 2019 Framework Agreement of April
26, 2021;
Renault Group Declaration of Employees’ Fundamental
Rights of October 12, 2004, which was enriched by the
framework agreement mentioned above;
World Group Committee (see 2.4.2.2.6);
Group Ethics and Compliance Committee (CECG) (which
is a vigilance measure of the Renault Vigilance Plan);
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 251

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
● Global alert system, available in 14 languages ​​(se
2.2.6.1);
● Alert Processing Committee (CTA) (see 2.5.1.2);
● Country Ethics and Compliance Committee (CECP);
● Responsible purchasing policies (see 2.5.2).
The last five points are measures included in the Group'
vigilance plan (see 2.2).
2.6.1.2. Methodological comments o
A. Lifecycle Assessment
Renault Group conducts lifecycle assessments i
accordance with ISO 14040 and ISO 14044. Renault use
the GaBi LCA (PE International) software and databases.
The lifecycle inventory describes all the elements that ar
taken into account in the lifecycle assessment of
vehicle. These data are related to lifecycle stages, fro
the vehicle’s manufacturing to its recycling, and includin
its usage phase:
● raw materials and manufacturing: thanks to Renault’
internal databases, each vehicle is described in terms o
the raw materials it contains. These data, coupled wit
those in the GaBi database, allow all phases of th
extraction and processing of raw materials to b
incorporated in the inventory. The data on th
manufacturing of vehicles integrated in the lifecycl
inventory comes from the annual environment
reporting for the industrial sites, which is subjected t
verification by an Independent Third Party;
● usage and maintenance phase: the usage phase i
calculated over 10 years and 150,000 km. The certifie
emissions for the regulatory cycle are taken int
consideration. Moreover, the impacts associated wit
the energy consumption of vehicles (diesel, gasoline o
electricity) are calculated from “well to wheel”, i.e., th
emissions associated with the production and transpor
of the energy used are taken into account. In the usag
phase, the maintenance activities performe
throughout the life of the vehicle (tire changes, o
changes, brake fluid, etc.) are taken into account;
● end-of-life: emissions related to recycling processes ar
accounted for. The recycling of materials from vehicle
enables the use of virgin material and associate
emissions to be avoided. The emissions avoided in thi
way are deducted from the carbon footprint.
All potential impacts are calculated using the GaBi software
B. Carbon footprint
The purpose of determining Renault’s carbon footprint i
to measure and propel the reduction of greenhouse ga
252 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
Handling of translation discrepancies
The Taxonomy was created by the European Commission
to provide investors with a “common language and a
clear definition of what is sustainable”. Having noted
certain discrepancies between the English version and its
translation into French, Renault Group has chosen to refer
only to the original English version of the Taxonomy
regulation, which is the most widely used in our industry, in
order to favor the comparability of performance
indicators.
a selection of environmental indicators
emissions in Renault Group. The following methodologies
have accordingly been chosen:
● the carbon footprint is compared with the number of
vehicles sold;
● in the event of sales or acquisitions, the reference value
(2010) is corrected to take into account or subtract the
site’s emissions at that date in order to measure
changes in the Group’s carbon footprint in relation to
2010 on a comparable scope of activity;
● if there is an update to the model in the GaBi tool used to
calculate the greenhouse gas emissions associated with
the materials and parts purchased (see above), the 2010
reference value is recalculated with the new database in
order to measure the changes to the indicator on a
comparable basis. This happened in 2015 and 2018. In
addition, to factor in the environmental performance of
suppliers between model updates in the GaBi tool, a
l
carbon performance factor of -2% per year is applied;
● the carbon footprint is calculated for a constant scope of
emissions. When the scope is amended, the 2010
benchmark value is recalculated. In 2017, the calculation
scope was extended to include: RRG, vehicles bought
from and sold to partners, filling of air-conditioning
systems (for premises and vehicles), vehicle and engine
testing and indirect emissions linked to purchase thermal
energy. In 2018 two foundries were integrated into the
scope without recalculating the 2010 benchmark value,
this being a capacity extension rather than an
integration of a pre-existing entity. In 2020, vehicle air-
l
conditioning maintenance was taken into account, with a
recalculation of the 2010 reference value. The conversion
factors between certification cycles were also updated.
The carbon footprint for Renault does not include a
prospective dimension. The value retained for the carbon
intensity of fuel and industrial processes is that of the
vehicle release year and does not vary during the lifecycle
of the vehicle (10 years, 150,000 km).
The table on the next page indicates the scope of
emissions covered by the Renault carbon footprint
indicator as well as the origin of the data used and the level
of external verification applied. To facilitate understanding,
the categories of the Renault carbon footprint are
matched to those of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
Category of the
GHG Protocol Renault carbon
categories footprint Scope
Scope 1 Direct emissions
Plants and other Renault Global
sites
Industrial, tertiary and logistics sites u
environmental scope (see appendix: “
the sites”)
Direct emissions linked to the combust
of volatile organic compounds, foundr
conditioning installations for premises
air conditioners in the vehicles produc
gearboxes and vehicles, and company
Scope 2 Indirect emissions
Plants and other Renault Global
sites
Industrial, tertiary and logistics sites u
environmental scope (see appendix: “
the sites”)
Indirect emissions from purchased elec
Scope 3 Other emissions produced
Goods and materials Materials Global
Cradle-to-gate emissions related to th
of materials and fuels, the transformat
and the logistics between the extracti
relative to the number of vehicles sold
Vehicles Global
Emissions linked to manufacturing of Re
Renault does not hold a majority stake
Logistics and Logistics Global
procurement (upstream)
Emissions from road, sea and rail trans
Business travel Movements Global
Emissions from employee business tra
Daily transport for Movements France
employees
Emissions from vehicles and public tra
commuting
Emissions prevented through homework
Logistics and Logistics Global
distribution
(downstream) Emissions from road, sea and rail trans
for manufactured vehicles
Sales and after-sales Sales and after-sales Direct and indirect emissions
from the Renault sales network
Use of products sold Usage Global
All vehicles sold (passenger and light c
Group brands
“Tank-to-wheel” emissions calculated
of 10 years/150,000 km
End-of-life processing End of life Global
of products sold
Emissions linked to the end of vehicle li
The recycling of materials from vehicl
virgin material and associated emissi
The emissions thus avoided are deducte
end-of-life treatment of vehicles depend
22628 and not the actual recyclability an
(85% recyclability and 95% recovery)
Leased assets Usage Included in the category “Use of produ
(downstream) rental agreement with or without a pur
Emissions scope Capital goods: Fuel and energy not inc
3 Greenhouse Gas generated; leased assets (upstream); f
Protocol emissions not transformation of products sold (not si
included in the Renault
carbon footprint
Other indirect emissions included in Renault’s carbon footprint (excluding Greenhouse Gas Proto
Fuel “Well-to-tank” emissions linked to the
consumed by vehicles sold (extraction
production of electricity
consumed by electric vehicles) calcul
10-year/150,000 km lifespan
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
02
Source of data
Primary: annual reporting by the sites – via R2E
der the consolidated
nvironmental indicators for
on of fuels, the incineration
processes, the filling of air
and processes, the filling of
d, testing of engines,
vehicles
Primary: annual reporting by the sites –
via R2E
der the consolidated
nvironmental indicators for
ical and thermal energy
Secondary: Thinkstep GaBi LCA database (emissions
from the production of materials, spare parts and
extraction required processing)
on of materials into parts
n and the tier 1 supplier site Primary: Renault design database (vehicle
composition, recycled materials), sales overview by
country
Primary: sales volumes and annual production of
Renault Group vehicles
ault vehicles in plants in which
Primary: reporting on logistics activities
ort for parts and materials
Primary: reporting from travel agent
el (train, plane)
Primary: information provided by employees
sport for employee
ng are deducted
Primary: reporting on logistics activities
ort
Primary: annual reporting by Renault Retail Group sites
Secondary: extrapolation for vehicles sold outside the
RRG network
Primary: homologation data, technical definitions (for
countries with no CO2 certification), sales overview by
mmercial) under Renault country
Eco-driving aids: efficiency of eco-driving aid
technologies calculated based on internal studies,
for a lifecycle
fitted vehicle rate calculated using engineering data
Primary: Renault design database (material
composition of vehicles) sales overview
e by country
s enables to avoid the use of
Secondary: Thinkstep GaBi LCA database (carbon
ns
intensity of manufacturing of associated materials,
from the carbon footprint. The parts and treatments)
on the requirements of ISO
recovery rates of each vehicle
ts sold” (vehicles under a
hase option)
uded in scopes 1 and 2; waste
anchises, investments;
nificant)
ol categories)
roduction of energy Primary: CO2 data based on CO2 emissions during
of oil, transport, refining; vehicle use (certified data), fuel type used/geographic
or country plate
ted for a
Secondary: JEC “well-to-tank” report on CO2 emissions
based on the “tank-to-wheel” CO2 updated annually
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 253

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
C. Revenues from circular economy activities
This indicator is calculated by totaling 2022 revenue
regardless of Renault Group’s stake in the capital of eac
entity.
► turnover from the used vehicle reconditioning activity o
the Flins Refactory (UV Factory);
► revenue related to sales of remanufacture
components (“standard exchange” range);
► turnover of the Gaia, INDRA and Boone Comeno
Metalimpex subsidiaries);
2.6.1.3. Methodological comments o
“Site environmental indicator
Reporting for the environmental indicators wa
conducted in accordance with the stipulations of the 202
Environmental Protocol for Renault Sites. The following i
an explanation of the main methodological choices of th
Protocol. This Protocol is available on request from th
Environment Department of the Group’s Health, Safet
Environment and Ergonomics Division (DHSEE).
Scope
The “scope” of the reported data covers the industri
subsidiaries (body assembly, final assembly, powertrai
and foundry) and the support sites (product and proces
design, logistics) in the Renault Group financial scope o
consolidation.
Compared with the 2021 scope, the following entities hav
left the reporting scope:
● Togliatti, Izhevsk and Moscow following the sale of th
sites on May 16, 2022;
● Choisy: transfer of activity to the Flins Refactor
between November 2021 and June 2022;
● ACI Villeurbanne: transfer of activity to the Meyzieu sit
ceasing operations on February 28, 2022.
Note: the AlpineF1 Team sites in Viry-Châtillon an
Enstone are excluded from the scope of environment
reporting, as the former produces engines exclusively fo
competition vehicles (Formula 1), and the latter design
and assembles these vehicles. These two sites represen
less than 1% of the Group's production and workforce.
Impacts of suppliers or third parties present on site are no
included, with the exception of the sites listed under th
“Site environmental indicators in 2022” table. All impact
arising from employee catering facilities, CSR activitie
and social partner activities are included in the data fo
the Renault sites.
The data for sites included in the scope of reporting i
year Y are consolidated with those of other sites only fro
year Y+1. As such, the information on the Puiseaux site i
consolidated for this exercise.
254 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
► turnover of the Mobilize subsidiary linked to second-life
or dynamic storage applications (Advanced Battery
Storage) for electric vehicle batteries.
This indicator is published on the basis of constant
material prices to ensure continuity in the monitoring of
performance. 2019, the year considered representative of
the "average" prices of the main materials taken into
account in the indicator (steel, copper, platinum, rhodium,
palladium and polypropylenes) was chosen as the
reference year. As 2022 saw a sharp rise in material prices,
the indicator stands at €972m before correction for the
price effect, and €651m after correction based on 2019
material prices.
the table
for 2022”
Data from Gaia are taken into account at sites where Gaia
operates, except the Flins site (France), where Gaia waste
is covered by a specific contract. The waste generated by
Gaia at the Flins site represents less than 1% of the total
waste generated by the Group.
,
The drinking water production and Davidesti waste
storage activity at the Pitesti site (Dacia) were removed
from the reporting scope. For the drinking water activity,
consumption is not related to the site activity and
l represents 2% of the Group total for external water supply
and less than 1% for all other indicators. For landfill, the
quantities represent less than 1% of the Group total.
Data control and consolidation procedures
Specialized experts from the Group DHSEE check the
consistency of data at each site. These checks include a
comparison with data from previous years and an analysis
of the impact of events occurring on site during the year.
The environmental data presented in the Universal
Registration Document have also been subjected to
external verification by the independent third party,
,
KPMG. Their conclusions are set out in the report in
section 2.6.6.
l Vehicle production
The vehicles counted are those that have gone through the
fall-off mechanical line manufacturing stage, which is
standard for all bodywork/assembly plants. From this
counting point, the vehicles leave the assembly line. They
can be driven and are considered to be manufactured,
even if they have to be reworked and/or tested afterwards.
Water consumption
Water consumption is expressed in thousands of cubic
meters (m3).
Measured volumes include water obtained by pumping
(underground and surface water) and/or external
networks (drinking water, industrial water). Collected
rainwater (Aveiro, Giheung, Guyancourt, Flins, Maubeuge
and Medellin) is also included.
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
Liquid waste
Data on pollutant flows are based on measurements of
effluents after they have been treated in the Group’s
plants and before they are discharged to the outside.
Discharges from some plants may subsequently be
treated in municipal treatment plants (see plant codes
2.6.1.4).
Under the Reporting Protocol, the frequency of discharge
analysis must comply with the regulations applicable to
the Renault sites.
The quantity of COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand)
represents the flow of organic pollutants discharged. This
quantity is expressed in metric tons per year.
The Zn+Ni quantity represents the sum of the zinc and
nickel flows discharged. This quantity is expressed in
metric tons per year.
The data presented only take into account the discharges
relating to metals and Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD), for
which concentration and flow must be measured by law, and
the discharges from the plants in Bursa (Turkey), Curitiba
(Brazil), Santa Isabel de Cordoba (Argentina) and Casablanca
(Morocco), for which voluntary controls are taken into account
in light of the significant contribution of these discharges to
the Group’s impacts.
I
The Moscow, Santa Isabel de Cordoba, Curitiba,
Casablanca (SOMACA) and Batilly (Sovab) sites are
subject to specific regulatory requirements and receive
an exemption on the calculation methodology of the
specific flows.
For sites that are not subject to a regulatory requirement
to measure pollutant flows or to consolidate voluntary
controls at the Group level, the reported value is noted as
“NC”. Black water discharges, for which there is no
regulatory measurement and/or reporting obligation, are
not included in the water discharges. This concerns 39%
of manufacturing sites (one of which is covered in a partial
statement) and 69% of engineering, logistics and support
sites.
Air emissions
Greenhouse gas (GHG) discharges include the direct and
indirect GHG emissions and are expressed in metric tons
of CO equivalent (COe).
2 2
Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are derived from
an inventory of GHG sources conducted in 2004 and
updated in part in 2021. Following this inventory, Renault
modified its guidelines to better reflect the total emissions
of Renault Group and to comply with the
recommendations of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG
Protocol) and the French protocol developed by
Entreprises pour l’Environnement (EPE). i
Emissions from the following sources were included:
● combustion of fossil energies transported to the site and
those transformed by the site for third parties;
● coolant fill-up of the air-conditioning systems fitted in
vehicles produced by the plant. Only HFC 134a fill-up is
taken into account. It is not considered pertinent to
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
declare HFO1234yf use under French legislation (Article
R. 543-75 of the French Environment Code excludes this
02
gas from coolant fluids) and in view of its negligible
impact on fuel combustion emissions during testing of
engines, gearboxes, endurance vehicles and on roller
benches;
forklift trucks using compressed natural gas or propane;
fuel consumption relating to Renault’s company vehicles
(taxi pools, shuttles, service vehicles, handling
equipment, etc.);
coolant leaks from fixed air conditioning systems for
premises and processes with a nominal load of more
than 5 teqCO;
2
the oxidation of carbon entering the melting furnaces
that is not found in the outgoing cast iron and is
therefore released during melting;
the oxidation of VOCs incinerated by incinerators and
resulting in CO emissions.
2
hese emissions make up more than 95% of the direct
HG emissions produced by Renault Group.
he following emission sources have been excluded from
he reporting scope, since the corresponding emissions
re not significant (less than 1% of total direct GHG
missions).
is not yet possible to correctly assess certain emissions,
o the following are not included in the reporting scope:
emissions associated with transport on sites not listed
above among the emissions counted (particularly the
delivery by a road haulier external to Renault Group);
fugitive emissions occurring when tanks of coolant (for
vehicle air conditioning systems) are filled and emptied;
emissions linked to SF-type circuit breaker facilities.
6
reenhouse gas (GHG) indirect discharges are related to
urchased electricity, steam and hot water. The emission
actors used for the 2022 reporting are:
for electricity, those published directly by suppliers or, if
these are not available, those published by the IEA
(International Energy Agency) in its publication IEA
(2022), Emission Factors;
for steam and hot water, data calculated on the basis of
information provided by suppliers.
missions factors used in the calculations of SO, NO and
2 x
HG emissions are taken from the CITEPA’s OMINEA
ational Inventory Report (updated in March 2022) or
egulation (EU) 2018/2066 and are consistent with the
ecommendations of the Intergovernmental Panel on
limate Change (IPCC).
he emission factor from fixed combustion facilities of low-
O natural gas burners was calculated in 2011, based on an
x
ternal study of 88% of sites in the scope having low-NO
x
urners. The factor thus obtained (0.0266kg/MWh LHV) is the
verage of the factors obtained at each site weighted by the
ower of the facilities.
he air emissions of SO and NO counted represent the
2 x
missions from the combustion of fossil energies in fixed
ombustion facilities at all sites, excluding on-site
ransport.
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 255

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
SO and NO emissions generated by engine tests are no
2 x
taken into account, since the SO emissions ar
2
insignificant and NO emissions are difficult to calculat
x
(unreliable assessment method).
The air emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC
included in the data are the emissions produced whe
bodywork is painted (body assembly factories). Th
application of paint on bumpers and on parts an
accessories is not taken into account.
The indicator shown corresponds to the metric tons o
VOC emissions and the ratio of VOC emissions per m2 o
painted vehicle surface. The consolidated ratio for th
Group corresponds to the total VOC emissions generate
by the body assembly plants divided by the total of th
painted surfaces.
Waste
The waste reported is the waste that leaves the site’
geographical scope; the quantities are expressed i
metric tons.
Construction waste from Renault sites is not reporte
unless a contractual clause explicitly states that th
construction company is not responsible for it.
The waste reported includes hazardous waste (HW), non
hazardous waste (NHW), and construction site waste.
For the sake of clarity, non-hazardous waste is presente
in two subcategories:
● metallic waste from production processes (scra
metals, machining chips, etc.);
● non-metallic waste (mixed ordinary waste, for example).
256 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
Foundry waste is waste specifically related to the foundry
process. As such, mixed non-hazardous waste produced
by a foundry is not considered foundry waste.
Non-recycled waste is waste for which the treatment
network is designated by European treatment codes D or
R1 (energy recovery).
Recovered waste is all waste that is recycled (material
recovery) or incinerated with energy recovery (energy
recovery, treatment code R1).
Energy Consumption
This metric represents the quantity of gas, heating oil, LPG
(excluding vehicles), biomass, steam, hot water, electricity
and solar thermal energy consumed at Renault sites,
expressed in MWh LHV (Lower Heating Value). However,
the data indicated does not include the propane used by
forklift trucks or the fuel consumed by the site (engine and
gearbox testing, company vehicles).
The primary or converted energy supplied to third parties
is not included. The purpose of the energy consumption
indicators is to reflect the energy performance of the
Group’s manufacturing processes.
The LHVs are consistent with Regulation (EU) 2018/2066 on
the monitoring and reporting of carbon dioxide emissions,
with the exception of LHV of natural gas from the Spanish
plants from the March 2022 (Spanish) national
greenhouse gas inventory report. The LHVs are consistent
with the emissions reported in the EU Emissions Trading
Scheme.
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
2.6.1.4. Site environmental indicators in 2
Liquid waste Air emissions
ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS 2022
Manufacturing sites
Body assembly plants
Batilly (SOVAB) (2, 12) 121,801 264.6 PB 10.8 0.033 25,503 2,525 28,028 37.8
Casablanca (SOMACA) (11) 94,525 169.8 PU 56 0.244 6,863 18,234 25,098 60.2
Cordoba 67,893 204.9 PB 3.5 0.036 16,433 9,798 26,231 62.8
Santa Isabel (10)
Dieppe 3,782 7.9 U nc nc 2,790 234 3,024 62.7
Douai (5, 12) 55,172 279.5 PB 14.6 0.045 21,469 2,782 24,250 37.6
Maubeuge (MCA) (12) 79,639 183.8 PB 2.1 0.017 20,035 2,325 22,360 28.1
Medellin (SOFASA) 49,863 145.1 PU 46.1 0.012 4,707 4 4,711 52.1
Novo Mesto (12) 68,130 99.9 PU 30.7 0.007 7,830 7,695 15,525 15.7
Palencia (7, 12) 94,680 270.2 PB 11.6 0.057 12,954 0 12,954 25.1
Sandouville (9, 12) 100,867 308.6 PB 10.6 0.048 21,368 3,117 24,485 31.3
Tanger 255,494 387.3 PBRU nc nc 4,984 0 4,984 20.5
Valladolid Carrosserie (12) 0 103.8 PU 5.4 0.005 5,443 0 5,443 nc
Valladolid Montage (12) 162,751 388.5 PU 58 0.149 19,178 0 19,178 20.9
Powertrain plants
Aveiro (CACIA) nc 84.6 PBU 17 0.002 2,285 11,255 13,541 nc
Cléon (12) nc 967.8 PU 99.3 0.078 12,490 8,287 20,776 nc
Le Mans (12) nc2,016.60 P 35.1 0.026 13,616 5,591 19,207 nc
Los Andes nc 18.1 U nc nc 1,024 4,980 6,004 nc
(CORMECANICA)
Meyzieu (ACI Tooling) nc 3.4 U nc nc 72 38 110 nc
Ruitz (STA) nc 19.7 U 3 0.002 3,051 867 3,918 nc
Séville nc 72.9 PU 21.8 0.001 2,885 0 2,885 nc
Valladolid Motores (12) nc 169.1 PU 20.4 0.053 11,455 0 11,455 nc
Mixed plants
Bursa (OYAK) (3) 241,788 450.1 PBU 37.8 0.253 21,028 41,648 62,677 33.8
Busan (RSM) (4, 13) 167,969 460.8 PBU 5.8 0.147 18,663 41,898 60,561 29.2
Curitiba Complexe 184,644 444.4 PU 228.8 0.104 24,089 0 24,089 43.9
Ayrton Senna
DACIA 314,3021,093.70 PBU 240.6 0.059 61,305 0 61,305 24.4
Automobile (8, 12)
Flins UCM + Refactory 70,617 868 PB 45.2 0.711 34,270 3,069 37,339 29.9
Foundries
Fonderie de Bretagne nc 70 PU 0.6 0.002 3,174 2,060 5,235 nc
Fonderie Cordoba nc 5.9 - nc nc 1,462 776 2,238 nc
TOTAL 2,133,9179,558.80 1,005.00 2,091380,427 167,184 547,611 31.8 7,
fo noitcudorp
launnA selcihev
)√(
ylppus
retaw
lanretxE
³m fo sdnasuoht
ni
tnalp
tnemtaerT )√( DOC
snot
cirtem
ni
)√( iN+nZ
snot
cirtem
ni
GHG tceriD ²OC qet
ni
GHG
tceridnI ²OC qet
ni
)√(
GHG latoT ²OC qet
ni
)√( COV ²m/g
ni
)√( COV
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
22 (1)
02
Waste, excluding waste from construction sites Energy
37 0.2 24 2,741 377 1,649 nc 1,55867.30% 378 88.10% 180,756
48 0.2 6.2 3,581 581 653 nc 90381.30% 12894.30% 54,052
68 0.13 14.7 10,233 3,034 1,091 nc 1,61988.70% 202 98% 103,771
25 0.02 1.7 539 3 161 nc 25164.40% 11199.40% 18,803
03 0.19 17 2,727 12,701 1,151 nc 2,41085.50% 1,22678.70% 167,692
83 0.17 16.3 2,571 15,832 1,214 nc 1,73091.20% 56887.40% 147,123
55 0.03 2.4 7,043 205 193 nc 32495.70% 142 98% 29,099
87 0.08 6.5 1,818 9,332 814 nc 1,48887.60% 145 74.10% 69,732
57 0.21 13.3 2,328 16,586 694 nc 10199.50% 099.90% 113,032
64 0.18 19.7 2,502 23,242 2,163 nc 2,481 91.10% 49669.60% 188,575
46 0.12 3.3 10,260 57,269 2,750 nc 3,96694.40% 67586.90% 213,300
nc 0.05 5.2 1,137 28,394 552 nc 3 100% 0 100% 56,192
47 0.17 20 4,710 340 1,849 nc 12498.20% 75 100% 143,659
nc 0.02 1.6 445 8,333 957 nc 81391.70% 97 61% 76,690
nc 0.1 11.4 3,499 17,177 5,306 2,145 3,68184.60% 1,33987.20% 257,458
nc 0.15 9.4 17,191 8,034 2,385 17,832 76892.20% 15589.20% 197,951
nc 0.01 0.9 373 1,473 811 nc 91865.40% 11522.40% 16,378
nc 0 0 188 14 4 nc 2687.60% 22 91.90% 1,091
nc 0.03 3.1 884 2,219 443 nc 42887.90% 24985.30% 35,856
nc 0.02 2.7 469 3,525 664 nc 43090.80% 46 71.30% 61,524
nc 0.1 11.4 2,093 8,928 2,681 346 1 100% 85 100% 185,163
69 0.18 18.9 7,497 39,374 1,834 57 2,61494.60% 1,05899.60% 198,160
32 0.21 16.7 9,040 19,675 1,062 322 70797.60% 1,52599.90% 177,989
61 0.33 24.4 12,994 27,962 2,004 1,680 1,72295.80% 473 100% 226,434
29 0.47 41.5 10,911103,229 5,754 757 6,61494.50% 552 76% 495,545
95 0.3 21.7 3,035 21,094 690 nc 1,63393.40% 52494.50% 207,119
nc 0.02 2.8 3,135 3,039 75 5,904 12663.60% 3558.90% 64,609
nc 0.01 1.5 12 98 935 9 941 9.20% 1098.70% 9,974
05 3.73 318.4 123,955432,072 40,538 29,052 38,37893.20% 10,43090.20% 3,697,727
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
2OS snot cirtem
ni
xoN snot cirtem
ni
)√( WHN cillatem-noN snot cirtem
ni
)√( WHN cillateM snot cirtem
ni
)√( WHN latoT snot cirtem
ni
)√( etsaw yrdnuoF snot cirtem
ni
delcycer-non
fo noitroporP )√( )yrdnuof .lcxe( etsaw snot cirtem
ni
delcycer fo noitroporP )yrdnuof .lcxe( etsaw
%
etsaw suodrazah-noN dexim snot cirtem
ni
etsaw
derevocer fo erahS dna yrdnuof gnidulcxe( )√( )etsaw latem
%
)√( noitpmusnoc ygrenE VHL hWM
ni
257

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
Liquid waste Ai
ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS 2022
Engineering, logistics and support sites
Aubevoye NC 30.5 U NC NC 3,236 738 3
Boulogne NC 22.9 U NC NC 2,007 542 2
Giheung NC 33.7 U NC NC 4,019 6,761 10
Guyancourt NC 180.7 U 67.8 0.038 11,072 2,709 13
Lardy NC 86.5 U 21.5 0.123 8,939 2,179
Titu NC 66.6 U NC NC 3,010 0
Valladolid Services NC 34.3 U 1.0 0.002 4,617 0
Centraux
Villiers-Saint-Frédéric NC 4.7 U NC NC 1,078 372 1
Cergy Pontoise NC 5.8 U NC NC 61 2,172 2
Dacia ILN NC 7.8 U NC NC 1,729 0
Flins CDPA NC NC B NC NC 0 169
Puiseux NC 2.5 U NC NC 549 114
Saint-André-de-L'Eure NC 5.3 U NC NC 761 85
(SOFRASTOCK)
Villeroy NC 7.6 U NC NC 1,566 174 1
TOTAL 488.9 90.3 0.163 42,644 16,017 5
2022 : TOTAL GROUP 2,133,917 10,047.7 1,095.3 2.255423,071.17 183,201606
2021 : TOTAL GROUP 2 103 568 10,076.6 1,164.8 2.139517,003.14299,200 816
Dacia drinking water NC 236.0 U 0.3 0.001 91 0
production site
Dacia Davidesti waste NC 0.1 NL 0.220.0002 0 0
storage facility
NC : not concerned (see comments on methodology).
NA : not available.
Treatment Plant Codes (means of treatment of liquid discharges) : P : physicochemical, B : biolo
COD : Chemical Oxygen Demand.
Zn+Ni : Zinc and Nickel.
GHG : greenhouse gases (direct and indirect discharges).
VOC : volatile organic compounds.
NHW : non-hazardous waste.
HW : hazardous waste.
(1) The scope of inclusion for the indicators and the associated methodological choices are det
(2) Data from the Batilly (SOVAB) plant includes liquid discharges from the supplier industrial co
(3) Water consumption at the Bursa plant includes that of the supplier industrial complex (PIF).
(4) The Welfare Center of the Busan site is excluded from the scope of accounting of the site im
(5) The liquid discharges from the Douai site include those of the supplier industrial complex (PI
(6)Water consumption at the Flins site includes that of the Parts and Accessories Distribution C
from the site, excluding waste.
(7) Water consumption at the Palencia plant includes that of the supplier industrial complex (PI
(8) Liquid discharges at the Pitesti (Dacia) plant include those of the supplier industrial complex
(9) Water consumption and liquid discharges at the Sandouville site include those of the suppli
(10) Liquid discharges from the Santa Isabel Cordoba plant include those of the Compagnie d’A
and the ILN (Logistics center).
(11) Liquid discharges from the Casablanca (SOMACA) plant include those of an industrial comp
(12) Site subject to the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU-ETS).
(13) Site subject to the South Korean Emissions Trading Scheme (KETS).
(√) Indicators audited by the independent third-party organization KPMG with a reasonable lev
fo noitcudorp
launnA selcihev
)√(
ylppus
retaw lanretxE
³m
fo sdnasuoht
ni
tnalp tnemtaerT )√( DOC snot cirtem
ni
)√( iN+nZ snot cirtem
ni
GHG tceriD ²OC qet
ni
GHG tceridnI ²OC qet
ni
)√( GHG latoT
258 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
emissions Waste, excluding waste from construction sites Energy
974 NC NC 0.02 1.1 249 1,107 81 NC 135.5 90.6% 37.8 74.4% 30,054
549 NC NC 0.01 1.2 443 17 30 NC 251.4 48.6% 191.8 90.6% 15,971
780 NC NC 0.01 0.7 133 221 477 NC 558.5 32.8% 59.3 26.1% 21,647
782 NC NC 0.08 4.3 958 430 187 NC 416.2 73.6% 283.1 93% 110,375
1,117 NC NC 0.07 2.9 220 106 306 NC 241.9 61.7% 55.6 78.1% 83,984
,010 NC NC 0.02 1.0 120 686 54 NC 85.0 90.1% 23.6 54% 29,006
,617 NC NC 0.07 1.9 578 33 135 NC 4.1 99.5% 9.3 100% 19,555
450 NC NC 0.01 0.4 165 88 60 NC 62.0 80.1% 39.9 92.4% 13,347
234 NC NC 0 0 1,510 296 46 NC 307.4 83.4% 254.5 98.4% 12,772
,729 NC NC 0.01 0.7 387 393 0 NC 110.0 85.9% 13.9 71.7% 8,267
169 NC NC 0 0 2,303 791 13 NC 314.2 89.9% 179.5 100% 23,484
663 NC NC 0.01 0.3 1,356 0 0 NC 268.0 80.2% 268.0 99.8% 4,951
846 NC NC 0.01 0.3 2,307 0 26 NC 380.2 83.7% 359.9 99.9% 5,202
740 NC NC 0.01 0.7 2,772 304 24 NC 914 70.5% 190 100% 11,355
,661 0.33 15.5 13,501 4,473 1,438 0 4,048 79.1 % 1,966 93.2 % 389,970
272 31.8 7,305 4.1 333.8137,456436,544 41,976 29,052 42,426 92.8 % 12,39690.5 %4,087,697
203 34.5 7,814 5.5 419.7132,336441,757 44,406 30,138 45,535 92.3 % 11,667 88.6 %4,669,415
91 NC NC 0.001 0.043 NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC 1,405
0 NC NC 0.0 0.0 NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC 37
ical, U : urban, R : internal recycling.
iled in the methodological notes in section 2.6.1.3.
plex (PIF) and the Compagnie d’Affrètement et de Transport (CAT) as well as PIF waste.
acts.
) and all the impacts of the delivery dispatch center (CLE).
nter (CDPA). The environmental impacts of the company Gaia are also included in the scope of reporting
).
PIF).
r industrial complex (PIF). Waste from the supplier industrial complex is excluded.
frètement et de Transport (CAT), the Delivery Dispatch Center (CLE) and the Parts and Accessories Units
ex not operated by Renault and adjacent to the site.
l of assurance for the 2022 financial year
)√( COV ²m/g
ni
)√( COV snot cirtem
ni
2OS snot cirtem
ni
xoN snot cirtem
ni
)√( WHN cillatem-noN snot cirtem
ni
)√( WHN cillateM snot cirtem
ni
)√( WHN latoT snot cirtem
ni
)√( etsaw yrdnuoF snot cirtem
ni
delcycer-non fo noitroporP )√( )yrdnuof .lcxe( etsaw snot cirtem
ni
delcycer fo noitroporP )yrdnuof .lcxe( etsaw
%
etsaw suodrazah-noN dexim snot cirtem
ni
etsaw derevocer fo erahS dna yrdnuof gnidulcxe( )√( )etsaw latem
%
)√( noitpmusnoc ygrenE VHL hWM
ni
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
2.6.1.5. Retail Renault Group (RRG) enviro
Europe
(excluding
France France) r
Number of facilities (1) 29 34 I
t
Reporting coverage rate 100% 100%
Waste (metric tons) 5,603(2) 3,197(2)
o/w hazardous 1,526(2) 1,337(2) t
o/w non-hazardous 4,077(2) 1,860(2)
Energy consumption 47,992 38,092
(MWh LHVs) t
s
Greenhouse gas emissions (teqCO) 6,613 8,609
2
o/w from combustion 5,568 4,180
o/w from electricity consumption 1,045 4,229
o/w from gas coolants Not available Not available
VOC emissions (kg) 30,953(2)
Water consumption (m3) 72,425(2) 96,418(2)
Soil and water tables
t
(1)A site comprises one or more dealerships and vehicle maintenance facilities. Rules for enterin
the second full year spent under the operational control of RRG. Sites leaving the RRG operatio
(2)Figures with, for certain sites, estimates prorated to the duration of the activity. In 2022, 1.4%
estimated.
2.6.1.6. TCFD correspondence table
The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
climate change to be published by companies in June 2017.
The correspondence table below identifies the actions taken by the
information published in the Universal registration document, this t
Change” and “Water Security” questionnaires, which have taken in
responses are public and may be accessed at www.cdp.net.
Topic Recommendations o
Governance Describe the organization’s governance around a/ Describe the Board’s
climate-related risks and opportunities.
b/ Describe manageme
and opportunities.
Strategy Describe the actual and potential a/ Describe the climate-
impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on identified over the short,
the organization’s businesses, strategy and financial
planning where such information is material. b/ Describe the impact o
organization’s business
c/ Describe the resilienc
different climate-relate
Risk Describe how the organization identifies, assesses anda/ Describe the organiza
Management manages climate-related risks. related risks.
b/ Describe the organiza
c/ Describe how process
related risks are integra
Metrics Describe the metrics and targets a/ Describe the metrics
& targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related and opportunities in line
risks and opportunities where such information is
material. b/ Disclose scope 1, scop
emissions and the relat
c/ Describe the targets u
and opportunities and p
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
mental indicators
02
rincipal management and impact
duction measures
France, thirteen sites were sold or closed in 2022. In the rest of Europe,
irty-three sites were sold or closed.
ll establishments report according to the protocol.
he mixed common waste collected by the municipalities was assessed on
e basis of a ratio of kg France/hours billed France.
RG works with Alertéo for better energy consumption management. For
e France scope, all the sites are monitored with tracking of consumption
nd anomalies.
onitoring of consumption via invoices and/or the websites of energy
ppliers for the Europe excluding France scope.
he reliability of the calculation method has been improved.
racking of consumption and anomalies with Alertéo for France.
onsumption tracking via invoices for Europe excluding France.
xtraction or neutralization of buried single-wall tanks. Preventive
quipment (spillage retention trays, double-wall tanks or above-ground
nks). 15 sites decontaminated as of the end of 2022
and leaving the reporting scope: newly acquired sites enter the reporting scope from
al scope are included in the reporting until their transfer date if this is after June 30.
f data from French sites and 0.5% of data from European sites excluded France were
ublished its recommendations on information regarding
Group in response to these recommendations. In addition to
ble also refers to the Group’s responses to the CDP “Climate
account TCFD’s recommendations since 2018. The Group’s
the TCFD Renault Group
versight of climate-related risks and opportunities. URD: 4.1, 2.1.5, 2.3.1.2
CDP: C1, W6
t’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks URD: 4.1, 2.1.5, 2.3.1.2
CDP: C2, W4
elated risks and opportunities the organization has URD: 2.3.2.1.4.1, 2.3.2.1.4.2
medium and long term.
CDP: C2, C3, W4
climate-related risks and opportunities on the URD: 2.3.2.1.4.1, 2.3.2.1.4.
s, strategy and financial planning.
CDP: C2, W4, W7
of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration URD: 2.3.2.1.4.4
scenarios, including a 2 °C or lower scenario.
CDP: C2, C3, W7
tion’s processes for identifying and assessing climate- URD: 4.2,1 2.1.5, 2.3.2.1.4.5
CDP: C2, W3
tion’s processes for managing climate-related risks. URD: 4.2,1 2.1.5, 2.3.2.1.4.6
CDP: C2, W3
s for identifying, assessing and managing climate- URD: 4.2,1, 2.1.5, 2.3.2.1.4.6
ed into the organization’s overall risk management.
CDP: C2, W3
sed by the organization to assess climate-related risks URD: 2.3.2.1.3.2,
ith its strategy and risk management process.
CDP: C4, W8
2, and, if appropriate, scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) URD: 2.3.2.1.3.2,
d risks.
CDP: C6, C7, W8
ed by the organization to manage climate-related risks URD: 2.3.2.1.3.1
rformance against targets.
CDP: C4, W8
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 259

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
2.6.1.7. Emission standards applicabl
in the European Union
Euro 1 Euro 2
Standard and year of introduction (all types) 1993 1997
Diesel
Nitrogen oxides (NOx):
limit value/compliance factor (1) – –
Carbon monoxide (CO) 2,720 1,000
Hydrocarbons and nitrogen oxides (HC + NOx) 970 900
Particles – by mass (PM) 140 100
Particles – Number (PN):
limit value/compliance factor (1) – –
Petrol
Nitrogen oxides (NOx):
limit value/compliance factor (1) – –
Carbon monoxide (CO) 2,720 2,200
Hydrocarbons (HC) –
Non-methane hydrocarbons (NMHC) –
Particles – by mass (PM) –
Particles – Number (PN):
limit value/compliance factor (1) – –
All values are expressed in mg/km except PN, which is expressed in number of particles per km.
(1)Compliance factor: Maximum ratio allowed between emissions measured under real conditi
(2)Regulation No. 459/2012 authorizes direct-injection gasoline cars to emit 6×1012 particles until 2017;
(3)Compliance factor applicable from 2018 for particles by number.
2.6.2 Social appendice
Data collection
Several methods are used to collect employee data:
● in 2022, the HR management system, People@Renault, i
deployed in 38 countries. It collects part of the data for th
entire scope and ensures the overall consistency o
results;
● a questionnaire is sent to the Clusters. This questionnair
includes a number of indicators: headcount by gende
and age, number of recruitment and redundancie
absenteeism rate, number and subjects of majo
collective agreements signed during the year, number o
employees covered by a collective bargainin
agreement and selected at corporate level from th
most relevant agreements, total cumulative trainin
hours in the year, training access rate, average trainin
rate per employee and percentage of employees wit
disabilities. Each indicator has a specific definition an
calculation method that is shared with each of th
Clusters. This questionnaire also enables data to b
cross-referenced with last year’s figures to monito
developments;
● for the data specific to health and safety (number o
occupational accidents, commuting accidents an
occupational illnesses), a reporting process with monthl
consolidation is put in place with the Group entities. Eac
month, the data is checked at the corporate level, usin
the protocol, to ensure the quality of their classification.
260 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
to passenger cars
% reduction
Euro Euro 6d compared with
Euro 3 Euro 4 Euro 5 6b/6c temp Euro 6d first limit value
2001 2006 2011 2015/2018 2019 2021
500/- 250/- 180/- 80/- 80/2.1 80/1.5 -84%
640 500 500 500 500 500 -82%
560 300 230 170 170 170 -82%
50 25 5 4.5 4.5 4.5 -97%
– – 6×1011/- 6×1011/- 6×1011/1.5 (3) 6×1011/1.5 -
150/- 80/- 60/- 60/- 60/2.1 60/1.5 -60%
2,200 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 -63%
200 100 100 100 100 100 -50%
– – 68 68 68 68 -
– – 5 4.5 4.5 4.5 -
– – – 6×1012 (2)/- 6×1011/1.5 (3) 6×1011/1.5 -
ns using the RDE protocol, and the emission limit values in the certification cycle.
rom then on, they are limited to 6x1011 the same as diesel vehicles.
digital reporting tool is being rolled out, contributing to
improving the reliability of data.
A continuous improvement process for these collection
methods is in place, taking into account the
recommendations of the statutory auditors.
Definitions and calculation methods
for labor-related indicators
Total workforce: number of employees holding an
,
employment contract with the entity (permanent or fixed-
term). Every employee on the payroll is counted as “one”
regardless of his or her contractual working time
(or activity rate). All employees on the payroll are counted,
even if they are sent to another entity.
Average Group workforce = (Group workforce at
December 31 of the previous year + Group workforce at
December 31 of the current year)/2.
Average country workforce = (country workforce at
December 31 of the previous year + country workforce at
December 31 of the current year)/2.
Average active workforce: the average active workforce
is equal to the total registered workforce for the entity
concerned, excluding “inactive” employees. The active
workforce is measured every month. The average active
workforce is equal to the average calculated over
12 months.
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
“Inactive”: persons appearing in the entity’s workforce but
physically absent from the entity for a long period and paid
only partially or not at all. This category consists mainly of
unworked notice periods, leave of absence unpaid for
various reasons including long-term parental leave,
sabbatical leave, end of professional career leave including
exemptions from activity in France, leave for business
creation, parental educational leave, absence due to long-
term illness or accident after using up the amount of leave
paid by the Company (amount linked to the current work
absence), and military service. Persons on sick leave
(excluding long-term) and on maternity or paternity leave
are not considered as “inactive” employees.
Number of Group redundancies: termination of permanent
contract or early termination of fixed-term contract by the
employer for one or more reasons that may or may not
l
relate personally to the employee in question, and which
may be either collective or individual. Conventional
severance, voluntary departure plans, non-continuation at
the end of a trial period, and abandonment of post are not
considered as redundancy.
Number of Group recruitments: hiring on permanent
contract and fixed-term contracts.
Top governing bodies: positions comprising members of the
BoM (Board of Management), CMC (Corporate Management
Committee) and BMC (Brand Management Committee).
Senior Management Positions: Positions of responsibility:
positions reaching a certain level of responsibility according
to the Korn Ferry job evaluation methodology. This
represents 4,000 positions, within the scope deployed in the
People@Renault tool (excluding Avtovaz and RRG).
Management Positions: positions of responsibility:
positions reaching a certain level of responsibility
according to the Korn Ferry job evaluation methodology.
This represents 10% of the Group’s positions in the scope
defined in the People@Renault tool (excluding Avtovaz
and RRG), i.e. 11,000 positions.
Number of hours of training: cumulative number of training
hours delivered, whether the training is provided on site by
internal/external trainers, outside the company by a training
organization, or followed remotely. This indicator measures
the overall training effort.
Training access rate: number of employees trained at
least once during the year who are still with the Company
at the end of the year as a percentage of the active
workforce at year-end.
Average training hours per employee: total hours of i
employee training carried out during the year for employees
present at the end of the year, as a percentage of the active
workforce at the end of the year.
i
Employment rate of people with disabilities: percentage
of employees with disabilities in the total workforce as of
December 31. It should be noted however, that it is difficult
to prepare statistics that accurately reflect the number of
disabled employees, given the different regulations and
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
he lack of legal reporting requirements in numerous
ountries.
02
bsenteeism (absence due to unforeseen circumstances):
he absenteeism rate is expressed as a percentage and is
alculated on the basis of the average active workforce
ermanent + fixed-term contracts) and the theoretical
early number of working days.
he number of days of absence is expressed in working
ays, excluding days of furloughs, layoffs, strikes, training
nd leave (including maternity and paternity leave).
ormula: number of absence days per year/(active
orkforce x number of theoretical days per year) × 100.
he choice of assumptions for the calculation of
heoretical days number is left up to the entities, since
cal factors may result in minor differences.
ealth and safety indicators:
R1 rate: frequency rate of occupational accidents
equiring more significant medical treatment than first
id for Renault and temporary employees. This rate
orresponds to a list of injuries of injuries that reach or
xceed a certain severity threshold and on which Renault
roup intends to prioritize its actions.
R2 rate: frequency rate of occupational accidents with
ick leave involving Renault and temporary employees
several additional exclusions compared with F2).
he FR1 and FR2 rates correspond to the incident rates
ivided by 1,000,000 hours worked.
xample:
Number of incidents requiring first aid
R2 = × 1,000,000
Number of hours of risks exposure
ccidents of temporary workers are included in the FR1
nd FR2 indicators from 2018.
1 severity rate: [Number of days of sick leave during the
ear due to occupational accidents that year or in
revious years - number of days of sick leave due to
ccidents that were contested or where a dispute was
on] x 1,000/number of hours of exposure to occupational
isks during the year.
ccupational illnesses: rate of occupational illnesses
ontracted by Renault employees following prolonged
xposure to an occupational risk (noise, chemicals, posture,
tc.), reported as such to an external body if the regulations
force in the country so provide. Rate of reported
ccupational illness per 1,000 employees to end-2016.
ccupational illness rate reported per million hours of
xposure to occupational risks from 2017 onwards. This rate
cludes occupational illnesses, reported with or without
ick leave.
ccidents on public roads: accidents involving Renault
mployees on public roads while commuting to work or
raveling on business.
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 261

2
Renault Group
Sustainable development
Group savings plan and group retirement s
Composition
Actions Renault mutual funds (PEG: group savings plans)
Renault France Fund (1) (3) Almos
Renault International Fund (2) Almos
Renault Shares Fund (2) Almos
Diversified mutual funds (Group savings plans
and collective retirement savings plans) (PEG + PERCO)
Multipar Actions Soc Resp 1
CMC CIC Perspective conviction Monde 0 to 40% M
CMC CIC Perspective certitude 0 to 100% M
0
Multipar Solidaire Equilibre Soc Resp
Renault Caremakers Solid'air (3) 3
Multipar Solidaire Oblig Soc Resp 90/95% Mo
5/10
Multipar Monétaire Soc Responsable
BNP Paribas Perspectives (PERECO) (3) (4)
BNP PARIBAS Perspectives Short Term
2024
2027
2030
2033
2036
2039
BNP PARIBAS Perspectives Long Term
(1)FCPE Actions Renault merged with the FCPE Renault France in 2021. Ren
(2)Renault Shares fund merged on 08/17/22 with the SHARE ORIGINAL com
(3)Fund open for payments throughout the year.
(4)FCPE mutual fund whose maturity date corresponds to the planned dat
262 Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022
vings (PERCO/PERECO)
Number of
subscribers at Assets Perf. 2022
December 31, 2022 (€ million) (%)
100% Renault shares 31,773 209.34 2.39
100% Renault shares 13,651 34.635 2.39
100% Renault shares NA NA NA
0% euro zone shares 9,977 73.14 -13.69
ney Market or Bonds 7,244 42.44 -16.43
60 to 100% Shares
ney Market or Bonds 7,338 24.81 -3.48
o 100% OECD shares
50% shares 14,203 179.89 -14.15
50% bonds
% Diversified shares 7,957 30.902 -10.76
30% bonds
30% Money Market
10% Solidarity
ey Market and Bonds 12,182 74.51 -8.97
Solidarity Securities
100% Money Market 26,021 168.78 -0.11
Diversified 865 9.66 -6.54
Diversified 945 12.47 -6.88
Diversified 803 8.21 -12.46
Diversified 720 5.85 -15.68
Diversified 655 4.35 -16.80
Diversified 518 2.95 -17.75
Diversified 388 1.71 -18.19
International shares 1,127 3.08 -18.60
ult France for French tax residents.
artment of FCPE Renault INTERNATIONAL.
of the employee’s departure.
www.renaultgroup.com

General
presentation of Sustainable Corporate Risk and Fina
Renault Group development governance control state
2.6.3 Societal appendice
2.6.3.1. Methodological comments on key
The information included in the comprehensive reporting
of societal initiatives is collected from a network of
correspondents covering all countries in which Renault
operates. This information includes:
● actions which are divided into four main areas: i
education, road safety, integration through employment
and "others" (grouping communication around ESG,
humanitarian aid, culture, sport, health, etc.);
● the purpose of each initiative determines the category
to which it is assigned. For example, donating a vehicle
for transporting children to school would be classified
under “education”;
2.6.3.2. Organizations supported in 2022 f
Foundation
Topic Name
Inclusion
60,000 Rebonds
Arpège insertion
Article 1
C'Possible
Ecoles de production
Emmaüs Connect
Emmaüs France
Entourage
Entrepreneurs du monde
Fondation Georges Besse
Fondation Leopold Bellan
Fondation Raoul Follereau
Habitat et Humanisme
Initiative France
Institution Nationale des Invalides
La Croix Rouge Française
La Table de Cana
Le Refuge
Les Restos du Cœur
Secours Populaire
Solidarité Nouvelle face au Chômage
Sortir de prison, intégrer l‘entreprise
Sport dans la Ville
Territoire Zéro Chômeur de Longue Durée
Time2Start
Wave
Y Croire
Information about
the company,
cial the capital and Annual general Additional
ents the share ownership meeting information
Sustainable development
02
ocietal reporting figures
actions stemming from Renault S.LA.S. philanthropy
(see 2.4.3.8).
he various CSR initiatives undertaken internally by
enault Group employees (disability awareness, etc.) are
cluded in societal investments.
owever, donations in kind (donations and loans of
ehicles in particular) and the provision of employees
hourly cost) are not counted in societal investments.
owever, we can indicate for information that the
65 vehicles donated in 2022 by the Engineering
epartment to firefighters in France and Europe, as well
s to the GIGN and RAID give rise to a tax receipt of
2.294m.
om the Renault Corporate
Renault Group I Universal registration document 2022 263

