SUSTAINABILITY

Safeguarding the future of the BMW Group with sustainable business practices
Commercial success, the responsible use of resources and the assumption of social responsibility form the basis for long-term growth and a steady rise in corporate value. Sustainability is therefore a key element in our Strategy Number ONE.

The BMW Group’s sustainability strategy is valid throughout the organisation and is incorporated in the Group
Balanced Scorecard as a strategic corporate goal. In 2012 we again asserted our position as most sustainable premium provider in the field of individual mobility, a fact also confirmed by an independent source: in the Dow
Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) rankings published in
September 2012, the BMW Group was listed as the most sustainable automobile manufacturer in the world for the eighth time in succession.

The Sustainability Board, which includes all members of the BMW Board of Management, continually develops the Group’s sustainability strategy and manages sustainability initiatives group-wide. The Sustainability Board meets twice a year and is supported by the Sustainability
Committee, comprising representatives from the various fields of responsibility. The principal task of this body is to ensure implementation of the sustainability strategy across the Group.

As well as paying due attention to social and ecological aspects in decision-making, the BMW Group’s sustainability management strategy encompasses the systematic analysis of external framework conditions and a continual dialogue with our stakeholders. The stakeholder dialogues held in Berlin and San Francisco in
2012 provided us with important input for the further enhancement of our sustainability strategy.

Clean production: key milestone reached
The integration of environmental management in all production processes enables us to reduce our use of resources and minimise environmental impact. We see this as an ongoing process. At an early stage we set ourselves the goal of a 30 % reduction in average resource consumption and emissions per vehicle produced for the period 2006 to 2012, using the measurable parameters energy, water, process wastewater, non- recyclable waste and solvents. We also check the level of CO2 emissions resulting from energy consumption. In actual fact, we improved efficiency by more than a third (35.7 %), thus surpassing our ambitious target.

A more detailed look at the fundamental parameters over the six-year period shows the following picture:

Energy consumption

Water consumption

Process wastewater

Non-recyclable waste

Solvent emissions

During the same period the CO2 emissions per vehicle produced also fell by 30 %. We have now set ourselves new targets to be reached by 2020: we aim to reduce resource consumption and emissions per vehicle produced by an average of 45 % compared to 2006.

Conserving resources in production
During the period under report, resource consumption and emissions per vehicle produced were reduced by an average of 11.6 %, equivalent to cost savings of more than €9 million on the previous year.

Energy consumed per vehicle produced

in MWh / vehicle

Water consumption per vehicle produced in m3 / vehicle

MANAGEMENT REPORT
A Review of the Financial Year
General Economic Environment
Review of Operations

Automotive segment
Motorcycles segment
Financial Services segment
Research and development
Purchasing
Sales and Marketing
Workforce
Sustainability

BMW Stock and Capital Market
Disclosures relevant for takeovers and explanatory comments
Financial Analysis
Internal Control System and explanatory comments
Risk Management
Outlook

CO2 emissions per vehicle produced in t / vehicle

Process wastewater per vehicle produced in m3 / vehicle

The high number of model start-ups, the increasing number of models being launched and the greater vertical range of manufacture, such as with CFRP, were the main challenges in our endeavours to improve energy efficiency. Expansion of our highly efficient and ecologically sustainable combined heat and power plants led to higher consumption due to conversion factors. Despite this fact we managed to reduce the energy consumed per vehicle produced in 2012 to 2.44 MWh (– 0.8 %). This improvement was achieved by means of a number of measures such as the use of waste heat from the paint shop at the Leipzig plant and the use of energy-efficient motors for cooling the computer centre at our Oxford plant. Greater energy efficiency and the use of electricity produced from regenerative sources helped to reduce the CO2 emissions per vehicle produced by 4.2 % to 0.68 tonnes during the period under report.

The volume of water required per vehicle produced also fell to 2.10 m3 (– 0.9 %) in 2012. The amount of process wastewater produced decreased by 11.1 % to 0.48 m3 per vehicle produced. The conversion of the paint shop in Spartanburg to a water-free paint process and the reuse of water in the paint shops at the Dingolfing and
Munich plants were the main contributing factors to this reduction.

The volume of non-recyclable production waste was reduced by a further 23.5 % to 6.11 kg per vehicle produced in 2012. The primary reason for the improvement was the conversion from waste disposal to recycling at all plants in the UK.

Solvent emissions increased slightly by 1.8 % to 1.68 kg per vehicle produced during the period under report, largely due to increased production volumes in China.
New, eco-friendly painting processes will come on line at the Tiexi* plant by the end of 2013. The paint shop at the Dadong* plant is also scheduled for retrofitting with a view to minimising solvent emissions in years to come.
* Joint venture BMW Brilliance

Eco-friendly transportation solutions
The general increase in production volume combined with regional shifts in demand had an impact on the

Waste for disposal per vehicle produced

in kg / vehicle

Volatile organic compounds (VOC) per vehicle produced

in kg / vehicle

percentages of various modes of transportation used.
The percentage of air freight used edged up to 1.2 %.
The percentage of sea freight also rose slightly to
79.2 %. Rail transportation went up to 8.9 %, whereas the amount of goods transported by road fell to
10.7 %. Overall, 56.9 % of all new vehicles left the Group’s plants by rail (+ 3.8 percentage points).

tation of innovative car-sharing strategies, also with purely electrically powered vehicles under the
DriveNow brand, we are consciously addressing changing needs in the field of individual mobility.
Further information on this topic can be found in the sections “Research and Development” and “Sales and Marketing”.

Sustainability also demanded in supplier network
Sustainability aspects also play a key role in the selection and assessment of our suppliers. More information on this topic is available in the section “Purchasing”.

Top position in premium segment for reduction of CO2 emissions
Increasingly strict legislation governing vehicle emissions worldwide is presenting new challenges for the automotive industry. The BMW Group took measures at an early stage aimed at achieving significant reductions in the fuel consumption and emission levels of its vehicle fleet. Efficient Dynamics innovations are having a beneficial impact on the entire fleet and are subject to continual improvement. As from 2013 the electric drive systems in products of the sub-brand BMW i will be increasingly supplementing our range of models. With the growing use of electricity to power vehicles and the rise of hybrid technology, we will continue to play a major role in reducing CO2 emissions and improving fuel economy. All of these factors taken together will enable us to meet applicable CO2 and fuel consumption thresholds in the future.

Between 1995 and 2012 we reduced the CO2 emissions levels of our newly sold cars in Europe by more than
30 %. In 2012 the BMW Group’s vehicle fleet recorded average fuel consumption of 5.0 litres of diesel / 100 km, 6.3 litres of petrol / 100 km and average CO2 emissions of 138 g / km in Europe (EU-27). We also lead the field among German premium-segment manufacturers with
CO2 emissions of 143 g / km. In 2012 the BMW Group’s fleet already included 34 models with emissions of less than 120 g CO2 / km. Our efficient technologies have given us a competitive edge, particularly in markets governed by a CO2-based vehicle tax. It remains our goal to reduce the CO2 emissions of our vehicle fleet by at least another 25 % between 2008 and 2020.

Strategic orientation towards sustainable individual mobility of the future
We think the term “premium” will be increasingly defined by reference to sustainability in years to come.
With our own BMW i sub-brand and the implemen67 COMBINED GROUP AND COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT

The risk management system is tested regularly by the
Internal Audit. By regularly sharing experiences with other companies, the BMW Group ensures that new insights flow into the risk management system, thus contributing to continual improvement. Regular basic and further training as well as information events are invaluable ways of preparing people for new or additional requirements with regard to the processes in which they are involved.

Managing the business on a sustainable basis is a core corporate strategy (see “Sustainability” section in the
Combined Group and Company Management Report).
Opportunities and risks related to sustainability issues are discussed in a sustainability committee. Strategic options and measures open to the BMW Group are put forward to the Sustainability Board, to which all members of the Board of Management belong. The emergence of new risks is also monitored closely throughout the group-wide risk network. The close ties between steering and sustainability committees ensure that risk and sustain ability management are closely coordinated.

The principal risk factors facing the BMW Group are described below. Additional disclosures on risks relating to financial instruments are provided in note 41 of the

Political and global economic risks
The ever-growing complexity and intensity of worldwide competition is constantly increasing the danger of incalculable chain reactions and their consequences.
General anxiety regarding the stability of the finance system and further developments in the sovereign debt crisis currently constitute risk factors for business performance. The slow-down of economic momentum in
China, political instability in the Middle East and parts of Asia as well as market regulations in various countries pose further risks.

The escalation of political tension, terrorist activities, natural disasters or possible pandemics could all have a negative impact on the world economy and international capital markets that can lead to a scarcity of raw materials and the possible breakdown of material or parts deliveries. The BMW Group counters these risks primarily by internationalising its purchasing, sales and production structures in order to reduce the potential impact of risk exposures in individual countries.

Strategic and sector-specific risks
The car manufacturing industry worldwide is faced with the constant challenge of having to reduce fuel consumption and emissions and raise safety standards at the same time. These requirements are increasingly accompanied by rules governing individual mobility in metropolitan areas. Changing regulations and rising fuel and energy prices also influence customer behaviour.
One of the main risks the industry faces is the possible threat of short-term tightening of laws and regulations that can trigger the requirement for significantly higher levels of investment. In some cases, changes in customer behaviour are not only brought on by new regulations, but also through changes of opinion, values and environmental issues. Among other factors, global climate change is having an effect on legislation, regulations and consumer behaviour. In order to meet structural changes in the demand for individual mobility that no longer necessarily means actually owning a vehicle, we are offering corresponding mobility services, such as the DriveNow car-sharing model.

With its Efficient Dynamics concept, the BMW Group has a pioneering role in reducing both fuel consumption and emissions and fulfilling legal rules and requirements at the same time. In addition, the BMW Group is investing in the development of sustainable drive technologies and materials, with the aim of providing highly efficient vehicles for individual mobility in the premium segment well into the future.

Risks emanating from statutory requirements to take back and recycle end-of-life vehicles are minimised by ensuring that “designing for recycling” is fully considered during the product development stage. All efforts are taken to ensure that the raw materials gained from recycling end-of-life vehicles can be reused in the production process. Statutory risks stemming from vehicle recycling in various markets are minimised by means of a specialised in-house team working in conjunction with regional managers.

Medium- and long-term targets have already been put in place in Europe, North America, Japan, China and other countries to reduce fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. Europe has set a target of achieving an average of 130 g CO2 / km for all new vehicles by 2015. The
EU Regulation defines rules for CO2 emissions based on the weight of each particular vehicle. For the BMW Group this means a target of under 140 g CO2 / km per vehicle.
In the USA fuel economy targets have now been defined up to the year 2025. Beginning with a gradual reduction for 2012 models, the new car fleets of all manufacturers are to achieve an average emission value of 250 g
CO2 / mile (155 g CO2 / km) by model year 2016 and an average value of 163 g CO2 / mile (101 g CO2 / km) by

MANAGEMENT REPORT
A Review of the Financial Year
General Economic Environment
Review of Operations
BMW Stock and Capital Market
Disclosures relevant for takeovers and explanatory comments
Financial Analysis
Internal Control System and explanatory comments

Internal Management System
Earnings Performance
Financial Position
Net Assets Position
Subsequent Events Report
Value Added Statement
Key Performance Figures
Comments on BMW AG

Risk Management
Outlook

model year 2025. Japan has also set ambitious targets for reducing fuel consumption. Authorities in China are currently discussing new, stricter regulations to tighten up the existing individual vehicle fuel consumption rules for the years 2013 to 2015.

The broader market introduction of alternative drive systems means new challenges and additional investment for the automotive industry. At the same time we also see this as an opportunity to put our technological expertise and innovative strengths to use. Greater fuel economy and the reduction of emissions are fundamental parameters that we automatically include when designing new products.

In the short and medium term we will achieve greater fuel economy by electrifying the drivetrain and developing comprehensive hybrid systems. We are also working on solutions for sustainable mobility in densely populated areas. Large-scale field trials with the MINI E have been carried out in the UK, Germany, France, the USA, China and Japan. A test fleet of BMW ActiveE electric cars based on the BMW 1 Series Coupé has been on the road since 2011. The extensive knowledge gained from the trials will be used in the series development of the
BMW Group’s electric cars. The BMW i3 will come onto the market at the end of 2013 as the first series-produced electric car made by the BMW Group for the metropolitan regions of the world.

Not only the safety of our customers, but that of all other road users is an essential component of our product responsibility. The BMW Group analyses the entire process chain from accident prevention to post-crash applications, such as the extended emergency call integrated in Connected Drive, which is a unique innovation. In order to minimise injury and damage caused by accidents we are employing both active and passive safety technologies. Active safety measures such as suspension regulation and driver assistance systems make an essential contribution to the prevention of accidents.

Our enhanced technology in passive vehicle safety has also led to the latest BMW 3 Series and 5 Series sedans achieving top marks in consumer tests worldwide, thereby setting new standards in their classes.

Moreover, the BMW Group is already researching topics for which we are only likely to receive answers in the longer term. These include, for instance, safety questions that may only present themselves when a

far greater number of hybrid and electric cars are on the road.

Operational risks
Production
Production interruptions represent a major risk for the
BMW Group, due to the potential scale of their impact.
Apart from hazards posed by the elements (such as fire or flooding), power supply and IT breakdowns, production interruptions can also be caused by logistical problems (such as the failure of a supplier to deliver).
Precautionary measures are therefore incorporated in production and logistics structures to make provision for such eventualities, both in terms of likelihood of occurrence and loss impact. These measures include the use of firewalls, sprinkler systems and auxiliary power supplies.

The flexible nature of our production network and working time models also generally help to reduce operational risks. The assessment of both environmental and social risks when selecting new production sites is also an important factor in minimising risk. Risks arising from business interruption and loss of production due to acts of God are insured up to economically reasonable levels with insurance companies that enjoy a good credit standing.

Purchasing
The customary distribution of tasks between manufacturers and suppliers within the automotive sector creates economic benefits, but also exposes contracting parties to a certain degree of mutual dependence. As part of a policy of preventative risk management implemented within the purchasing function, suppliers are assessed for technical competence on the one hand and financial strength on the other, during both the development and production phases of our vehicles. Suppliers’ risks at a local level also play an increasingly important role in the context of decision-making. As part of our catalogue of procedures, for instance, we also assess the extent to which supplier sites are exposed to natural hazards, such as floods or earthquakes, thus reducing our exposure to parts supply risks.

Sustainability plays a crucial role in all of our purchasing activities and is taken into consideration when developing environmental, social and governance standards. In this context, we manage sustainability risks using a systematic three-stage risk management approach, comprising risk filters, modularly designed