SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT

The BMW Group is committed to making continuous progress.
Its innovative expertise aims to systematically reduce resource requirements. Taking a 360° approach to sustainability is a central pillar of the BMW Group Strategy.

the use phase of automobiles (Scope 3 categories Purchased
Goods and Services, Downstream Transportation and Distributions, Use of Sold Products). The Group’s holistic, science-based approach involves This is built on

The BMW Group believes that its ability to create value and perform at a high level lies in balancing its economic, environmental and social responsibilities. The BMW Group has a long tradition of being responsible and forward-thinking when it comes to environmental protection, our people and our commitment to society. It is only natural, then, that in recent years we have expanded our focus beyond our own operations to our entire value chain, including our upstream supply chains and the lifecycle of our products after they have been delivered to our customers.

The Company pioneered sustainable business practices by appointing the first environmental officer in the German automotive industry over fifty years ago. Today, its robust environmental management systems and approach to corporate responsibility continue to uphold the BMW Group’s high standards.

The BMW Group is making its contribution to Europe's overarching goal of climate neutrality by striving to achieve net zero carbon emissions across its entire value chain by 2050 at the latest.
The BMW Group’s ambitious sustainability targets are aligned with the 1.5°C pathway of the Paris Agreement for its CO2e emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) and the Well-Below-Two-Degree
(WB2C) approach for CO2e emissions from the supply chain and

— permanent reduction of energy requirements (Scope 1 and

2 emissions of BMW Group locations),

— making greater use of renewable energy (Scope 1 and 2

emissions of BMW Group locations),

— using the latest technology to improve efficiency (Scope 3

Use of Sold Products),

— using electricity from renewable sources as a criterion when awarding contracts to suppliers (Scope 3 Purchased Goods and Services), and

— a continuously increasing secondary raw material quota

(Scope 3 Purchased Goods and Services).

The BMW Group offers its customers state-of-the-art drive technology, regardless of the drivetrain type. The Company recognised the challenges now facing the entire automotive industry at an early stage and is taking the initiative to find solutions. The
BMW Group has been reducing fuel consumption for many years by using innovative EfficientDynamics technologies to develop highly efficient engines, thus ensuring the increasingly efficient use of fossil fuels at an early stage. The expansion of the PHEV fleet marked a significant step towards drivetrain electrification and reduced the carbon emissions of the Group’s own vehicle fleet even further. The BMW Group’s entry into electromobility

began over 15 years ago with the development of the all-electric
BMW i3. The extensive experience gained since then continues to shape the BMW Group’s manufacturing processes for all-electric models, which have become a success story for the
BMW Group. In 2024, they accounted for 17.4% of total deliveries, making the BMW Group one of the world's most successful suppliers of all-electric vehicles. This robust strategy has delivered measurable success, with the BMW Group regularly surpassing EU carbon targets for its fleet. Consistently strong rankings in prestigious rating schemes highlight the priority that the
BMW Group places on sustainability.

The NEUE KLASSE, a new model generation, will be launched in
2025. It was developed with a strong emphasis on efficiency and sustainability throughout the supply chain. At the same time, with the NEUE KLASSE, the BMW Group is vigorously pursuing its strategic approach to close material cycles and thus gradually move closer to circularity. The BMW Group intends to introduce a second all-electric and locally emission-free variant to be powered by hydrogen fuel cells in 2028.

Climate change mitigation is a top priority for the BMW Group.
Between 1995 and 2020, the BMW Group halvedthe CO₂ emissions of its new car fleet in Europe, thanks in no small part to an unwavering commitment to EfficientDynamics technologies. The
EfficientDynamics approach brings together highly efficient drivetrains, intelligent lightweight construction and optimised vehicle energy management systems.

* Not part of ESRS reporting.

However, the BMW Group doesn’t restrict its commitment to taking impactful action to its own vehicles. The Group takes a broader perspective which encompasses the entirety of the vehicle population, which comprises over 250 million automobiles in
Europe alone. The greatest untapped area of potential when it comes to reducing carbon emissions from road traffic in the near future lies in increasing the renewable, carbon-neutral components in fuel. Since the phased introduction of the B-series petrol engine in 2015, the BMW Group’s petrol engines have been approved for use with fuel containing up to 25% ethanol (E25), instead of fuel that meets the current E10 standard. This switch reduces CO₂e emissions by approximately 20% to 45%, depending on the composition of the rest of the fuel. Once the necessary legal frameworks have been established, fuels of this kind will be ready for widespread adoption. For diesel drivetrains, an alternative already exists: HVO100, a fuel derived from waste materials with 90% fewer carbon emissions. This fuel can be used in vehicles from the BMW Group thanks to the gradual introduction of the B-diesel engine generation, a process which began in 2015. In this regard, the BMW Group is contributing in advance with a pilot project: since early 2025, all diesel models produced in Germany have been filled with non-fossil HVO100 as their first factory fill prior to delivery to retail partners. The
BMW Group launched this pilot project to demonstrate that
HVO100 is a fully viable and practical diesel substitute. As of
January 2025, the BMW Group's vehicle fleet includes around
4.5 million diesel engines and over 13 million B-series petrol engines. By using a higher share of renewable fuels, these engines are playing a significant role in cutting CO₂e emissions.

This approach reflects the BMW Group’s commitment to technology openness: a high-quality mix of state-of-the-art, efficient drivetrain types makes an effective contribution to the reduction of CO2e emissions.

In 2020, the BMW Group expanded its strategic target system beyond the boundaries of its own Company and formulated its own targets for the reduction of carbon emissions in the supply chain. The BMW Group uses integrated management systems to cover a wide range of measures, from definition of its own climate objectives to individual operational decisions. This approach

allows the Group to ensure that resources are used efficiently while also providing transparent information about the effectiveness of these measures. The BMW Group believes that the implementation of a holistic circular economy has enormous potential to further reduce the consumption of resources and drive forward the development of closed material cycles.

In 2030, the BMW Group intends to reduce its carbon emissions levels by at least 40 million tonnes compared to 2019. To achieve this aim, the Group will focus on using renewable energies in production, electrifying the vehicle fleet, and using electricity from renewable sources along with secondary materials to decarbonise the supply chain. This new target replaces the previous goal of reducing carbon emissions per vehicle by 40% over the same period.

The BMW Group places great emphasis on the responsible and efficient use of resources of all types. Guided by the principles of
Re:think, Re:duce, Re:use, Re:cycle, the BMW Group is working closely with its partners in the circular economy to close material loops within the automotive industry and integrate circularity into its processes. The Group also monitors its fresh water and energy consumption levels on a consistent basis so that they can be minimised. The BMW Group is expanding its water treatment systems to minimise fresh water usage and maximise efficiency.

The BMW Group can rely on its workforce to meet these ambitious goals. It encourages its employees to develop their strengths, with diversity playing an important role. The BMW
Group places great emphasis on fostering an unprejudiced, appreciative and inclusive working environment where the benefits of diverse teams allow individuals to unfold their full potential.
The BMW Group is consistently working towards its strategic goal of increasing the proportion of women in management positions. The Group’s performance and ability to compete are enhanced by strong teams with complementary strengths who work together to achieve the best solutions in a complex environment.

To this end, the Company continuously invests in building up the expertise of its workforce. Continuous training guarantees jobs.

With “Just Transition”, the BMW Group is combining the transformation with modern workplaces that guarantee safety and reliability for its workforce in a productive environment. In the
BMW Group’s production network, entire plants are being transformed and geared towards electromobility while production continues. Highly regarded employer ratings consistently rank the BMW Group as one of the world’s most attractive employers.

Cooperation with external partners is based on stable and established relationships, as well as the same values that are cultivated within the BMW Group. These partnerships explore new technologies and develop innovations. For the BMW Group, upholding environmental and social standards across its global supplier network is of the utmost importance. This includes, in particular, the respect of human rights. This commitment is anchored in the Group’s own ethical principles and reinforced through risk analyses and monitoring. The BMW Group’s raw materials strategy and commitment to responsible resource management are integral parts of its holistic corporate strategy.

with the European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS). It is based on a double materiality assessment that considers both the inside-out and outside-in perspectives. According to the
ESRS, companies must classify ESG topics as either material or non-material. The BMW Group. factors in effective, Group-wide mitigating actions which have already been implemented. Materiality is assessed at the lowest topic level (bottom-up approach).
Accordingly, topics classified as non-material under ESRS may still hold significant importance for the BMW Group. Legally compliant behaviour is also a top priority for the BMW Group in these areas.

Because of this, the results of a materiality assessment carried out by the Group on an ESRS basis may not be fully comparable with those of other companies. This means that a sustainability topic may be classified or reported on differently by different companies in the same sector due to their specific assessment criteria and frameworks.

This Sustainability Statement fulfils the requirements for the combined non-financial statement (NFS) in accordance with §§
289b (1) and 315b (1) to 315c of the German Commercial Code
(HGB). It therefore represents the Combined Non-financial
Statement of the BMW Group and BMW AG. Unless stated otherwise, all information relates to both the BMW Group and
BMW AG.

We have adopted the delegated act outlined in Article 29b of Directive 2013/34/EU on sustainability reporting standards (the
European Sustainability Reporting Standards [ESRS]) in full for the first time. Contrary to expectations, the ESRS are not currently mandatory due to the fact that the Corporate Sustainability
Reporting Directive was not adopted into German law by 31 December 2024. Due to the future mandatory application, the
ESRS are nevertheless already used as a framework for the NFE for the 2024 financial year on a voluntary basis.

Because Group-level information is of relevance for our stakeholders, the NFS for BMW AG will not use a different framework.
In principle, the policies, measures and targets described for the
Group also apply to BMW AG.

This Sustainability Statement also takes the following legal frameworks into account:

— Taxonomy Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2020 /852 of the
European Council and of the European Parliament on the
Establishment of a Framework to Facilitate Sustainable Investment, and amending Regulation (EU) 2019 /2088) and its delegated acts

— Book IX of the German Social Code: Rehabilitation and Participation of People with Disabilities (SGB IX) § 154

published by the Sustainable Accounting Standards Board. They provide information about sector-specific disclosures. Footnotes are used to identify these disclosures as additional disclosures.
An overview is available in the SASB Index.

Some of the data points in this report refer to the 2021 GRI
Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).

companies are not included in the Sustainability Statement if they are deemed immaterial. An overview of the companies that have been included is available in the
List of Investments. Deviations from the Group reporting entity have been noted for the relevant disclosures.

chain.

The BMW Group’s ESRS-based materiality assessment has identified the impacts, risks and opportunities that are considered material in accordance with ESRS. A detailed description of this materiality assessment is provided in the Materiality
Assessment section. Whenever the identified material impacts, risks and opportunities can be assigned to the upstream or downstream value chain, the policies used to address them, the targets defined in relation to the material sustainability matters, and the measures that have been taken or planned to achieve strategic targets and objectives also apply across the upstream or downstream value chain.

The parameters that have been determined and applied in this

The BMW Group is making use of the option to omit certain information relating to intellectual property, expertise or the results of innovations for the 2024 financial year (§ 289e HGB). The safeguard clause applies to the disclosures specified in ESRS
E1-1.16c) and E1-3.29c). The safeguard clause referenced in
ESRS 2 BP-1.5e) has not been used for the 2024 financial year.

The timeframes for collecting and assessing material impacts, risks and opportunities are aligned with our long-term corporate planning. The short-term period corresponds to the reporting year. In terms of material impacts, risks and opportunities, the medium-term time horizon covers the period from 2025 to
2030. Accordingly, the long-term time horizon extends to the period after 2030. For the main climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities, the period from 2025 to 2035 is considered to be medium-term. The long-term period begins after 2035. The periods for the material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities correspond to the periods previously used in the Group’s internal assessment and external reporting.

A complete list of disclosure requirements and referenced data points is available in the ESRS Index.

Due to the voluntary first-time application of ESRS, the previous with a few exceptions. Figures reported in the Group Financial
Statements that enable a better understanding of the non-financial statement are disclosed and explained.

Strategic position - Sustainability-related goals
Key sustainability-related goals are described as integral components of the BMW Group strategy in Position – what does the
BMW Group stand for? and Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation, Energy Efficiency and renewable Energies, Circular Economy and Resource
Use and Own Workforce.

The aim of the BMW Group Strategy is to find the right balance between business, the environment and society. The key areas of focus within the strategy are electrification, digitalisation and sustainability or circularity. Sustainability encompasses the strategic organisation of the entire value chain. Sustainability considerations are therefore integrated in corporate structures and processes in a comprehensive and holistic manner. » The BMW Group
Strategy

Operating segments
The BMW Group’s business model comprises the Automotive, Motorcycles and Financial Services segments. A detailed description of the segments along with their products, services and key markets can be found in » Organisation and Business Model and
» Segments. Information about relevant BMW Group products that were introduced in 2024 is also provided in » New BMW products, » New MINI Family launched, » Motorcycles Segment and » Strategic approach
– where is the BMW Group heading?.

Employees
At 31 December 2024, the BMW Group employed a workforce of 158,441 people worldwide. The distribution of the workforce by region is presented in Own workforce characteristics.

Business model and value chain
The BMW Group develops and manufactures premium automobiles and motorcycles, in addition to providing financial services.
General information about the factors that impact its business model and management is provided in » The BMW Group Strategy.

The BMW Group’s upstream value chain comprises a multi-layered network of suppliers who provide production material, raw materials, components, capital goods and services to the BMW
Group for the purpose of producing vehicles and parts. For a description of the Purchasing and Production departments and the

role that they play in the value chain, please refer to » Purchasing and Supplier Network and » Production Network. The BMW Group’s global sales network functions as a downstream value chain and serves to sell the vehicles produced, provide customer care, and carry out maintenance and repair work on vehicles owned by customers. An explanation of the BMW Group’s sales system and the relevant customer groups and markets is available in
» Segments, » Organisation and Business Model. » Strategic approach – Where is the BMW Group heading? provides an insight into the sales strategy and the shift to direct sales. The recycling and reprocessing of parts and the recycling of vehicles is covered in Measures for the responsible use of resources. Thousands of vehicles are dismantled and recycled using efficient methods every year at the
BMW Group’s recycling and dismantling centre. The BMW
Group’s Financial Services segment focuses on credit financing, leasing BMW Group brand automobiles and motorcycles to private customers, and the fleet business. It plays a key role in the sales system. Further details are available in » Segments – Financial
Services. Regardless of how the contracts are categorised for financial reporting purposes, the use of vehicles leased in the Financial Services segment and the associated environmental impacts are allocated in full to the downstream value chain.

For information on financial performance and the course of business, please refer to » Financial Performance and » Course of Business and Segments. An overview of actual and potential material impacts, risks and opportunities, and how they relate to the BMW
Group’s business model, strategy and value chain, can be found in Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities and their Interaction with
Strategy and the Business Model. This also provides information about the resilience of the BMW Group’s corporate strategy and business model with regard to management of material impacts and risks as well as utilisation of material opportunities.

Procedure and methodological basis for the materiality assessment
After many years of applying the GRI materiality methodology, the BMW Group conducted its first materiality assessment based on the European Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive
(CSRD) and the ESRS. This assessment followed the double materiality approach outlined in ESRS 1, which considers two key perspectives:

Impacts (inside-out perspective): this perspective assesses the positive and negative impacts of the BMW Group’s business activities on the environment and society. It encompasses all relevant stakeholders of the BMW Group.

Risks and Opportunities (outside-in perspective): this perspective assesses how external sustainability factors influence the
BMW Group’s business model. It focuses on risks and opportunities that could arise from external developments and have a financial impact on the BMW Group.

The BMW Group uses the steps outlined below to identify, assess and prioritise impacts, risks and opportunities as part of the materiality assessment process. The approach outlined in
ESRS 1 is used for all sustainability topics, including aspects of business conduct (ESRS G1), biodiversity and ecosystems
(ESRS E4) and resource use and circular economy (ESRS E5).
Additional descriptions of the identification and assessment of material climate and environmental impacts, risks and opportunities follow this general overview.

Identification and assessment of relevant sustainability topics (identification of impacts, risks, and opportunities) for the BMW Group

2. Transparency regarding expectations and interests of key internal stakeholders and dialogue with relevant and affected stakeholders external to the BMW Group

3. Assignment of material sustainability topics to the corresponding disclosures in the topical ESRS

4. Validation of outcomes and finalisation of the materiality

assessment.

Additional analyses for specific sustainability topics are sometimes performed before the materiality assessment itself.

Scenario analyses are used to identify climate-related physical and transitory risks and opportunities Procedures for identifying and assessing material climate-related and environmental impacts, risks and opportunities. The results of these analyses are incorporated into the materiality assessment to identify potential and actual material risks and opportunities and their scale. Analysis of opportunities and risks takes place in the three defined time horizons

The following methodology is used for the inside-out as well as the outside-in perspective.

Step 1
The first step in identifying and assessing relevant sustainability topics is to review the relevant sustainability topics identified on the basis of the BMW Group’s materiality assessments in previous years, taking into account the extended requirements of
ESRS. This step also involves determining the extent to which new or additional sustainability-related topics need to be added, for example in the areas of strategy, Board of Management remuneration, competition, or environmental analysis. The outcome of this review is assigned to the sustainability topics specified in ESRS 1 “General requirements”.

Next, negative or positive impacts on the environment and society are formulated for each sustainability topic (e.g. water consumption at production sites) along the entire BMW Group value chain*. The starting point is the Company’s established environmental, social and governance due diligence processes. When needed, these are supplemented by new impacts that have not

yet been subject to detailed monitoring (e.g. in the area of biodiversity). The impacts form the basis for deriving potential risks and opportunities (e.g. regulatory risks to curb water consumption in water-sensitive areas) for the BMW Group’s business model. There are also sustainability-related risks and opportunities that may affect the BMW Group regardless of their impact.
Risks and opportunities of this kind are compared with the outcomes of the company-wide risk management process (information about the risk management process is provided in Risk and opportunity management, while the definition of non-financial risks in accordance with Section 289c HGB is provided in
Non-financial risks as reported in the non-financial statement (NFS)). Each impact or opportunity and each risk is placed in a temporal context with three different categories: short-term (2024 financial year), medium-term (2025 to 2030 inclusive; up to and including
2035 for climate-related risks or opportunities) and long-term (>
2030 or > 2035 for climate-related risks/opportunities). The resulting list of impacts, risks and opportunities is validated in workshops with internal and external experts. Risks and opportunities are derived at the level of sustainability sub-topics and sub-sub-topics whenever possible so that their materiality can be assessed on a differentiated basis within a topic-specific
ESRS.

Both the upstream value chain (supply chain) and the downstream value chain are considered as part of the materiality assessment. The impact on the environment and people along the supply chain is addressed in the impacts, risks and opportunities that relate to environmental or social sustainability topics.

* This encompasses all of the BMW Group’s operations, including all of its locations and regions, as

well as its business relationships.

The business conduct-related impacts, risks and opportunities in the context of the supply chain, on the other hand, focus exclusively on the management of relationships with suppliers, including payment practices.* This includes, for example, fair behaviour towards suppliers, transparent selection process criteria, and adequate payment practices.

The subsequent tool-supported assessment of all formulated impacts, risks and opportunities is carried out by internal experts.
Each assessment parameter is rated on a scale of 1 to 4. The range in the overall assessment can therefore be between 0.1 and a maximum of 4.0 when multiplied by a probability of occurrence. If an impact, risk or opportunity exceeds 2, it is considered material. The severity of a negative or positive impact is determined by multiplying its scope (how widespread is the impact?) by its scale (how grave or beneficial is the impact?). For negative impacts, the extent to which the impact can be remedied is also taken into account. In the case of a potential (positive or negative) impact, the assessment is assigned a probability of occurrence.
Risks and opportunities are assessed on the basis of financial materiality. Potential risks and opportunities are the product of their financial scale and their probability of occurrence. The following categories are used to specify the financial scale of a risk or opportunity: financial performance, strategic targets, reputation effect, supply chain and compliance. Not all evaluation categories necessarily have to be evaluated and the highest value from the five evaluation categories is always decisive.

The assessment process is also based on the following assumptions:

— Mitigating actions that have already been implemented and are effective for the BMW Group during the reporting period are taken into account when assessing impacts and risks.
In cases where assessment results are provided by multiple assessors due to segment-specific differences, an average valuation is applied.

— An additional detailed review of the outcomes is carried out in threshold cases where a rating is exactly or just below 2, as well as in extreme cases.

— Assessment results are backed up using external sources or

empirical studies whenever possible.

Outcome: The sustainability sub-topics and sub-sub-topics specified in ESRS 1 are in line with the sustainability matters that the BMW Group has considered to date. On the basis of the sustainability sub-topics and sub-sub-topics specified in ESRS 1 and the mitigating action which has been implemented, a total of almost 800
BMW Group value chain were available for assessment purposes. Of these, 85 impacts, risks and opportunities were assessed as material for the BMW Group via the internal analysis for the 2024 financial year. These can be assigned to 31 sustainability sub-topics and sub-sub-topics (for details, see List of material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities).

impacts, risks and opportunities along

Step 2
In the second step, the BMW Group involves affected stakeholders and users of sustainability statements in assessing the material sustainability topics. The following stakeholder groups were consulted in order to draw opinions from as wide a circle as possible: investors, the Works Council of BMW AG as employee representatives, customers, suppliers and other business partners, network partners, representatives from civil society, NGOs, and representatives from politics and science. Stakeholders are placed in E, S or G groups based on their expertise, and asked for their individual opinion of the assessment results. Opinions are gathered using structured interview formats, e.g. virtual stakeholder forums with external moderators. The BMW Group is also in continuous dialogue with a large number of external stakeholders in Germany and abroad regarding all sustainability

Outcome: The material sustainability sub-topics and sub-subtopics identified by BMW Group’s internal materiality assessment were confirmed by the stakeholder groups surveyed. Information on adjusting the relevance of sustainability topics was taken into account as part of a validation of the assessment results.

Step 3
In the third step, the relevant sustainability topics for the BMW
Group are assigned to the individual disclosure requirements of the topical ESRS. As the European Commission has yet to issue a final mapping matrix for the 2024 financial year, the BMW
Group mapped sustainability topics independently and arranged for its mappings to be validated by two external consulting firms.
For the mapping of a material sustainability sub-topic or subsub-topic to disclosure requirements in the area of strategies, measures and targets, the minimum disclosure requirements according to ESRS 2 and the disclosure requirements of the relevant topical standard are taken into account.

Material sustainability sub-topics or sub-sub-topics are linked to quantitative disclosure requirements via the specific formulation of a material impact, a material risk or a material opportunity. By way of example, the material impact on “Social dialogue” makes the sustainability sub-sub-topic “Social dialogue” material. The material sustainability sub-topics and sub-sub-topics are then assigned to the disclosure requirements pursuant to ESRS.

Outcome: The 31 material sustainability sub-topics and subsub-topics, which are distributed across 85 impacts, risks and opportunities, are associated with over 500 individual disclosure requirements (data points) for the BMW Group for the 2024 financial year in accordance with the respective ESRS.

* Approach adopted by the BMW Group for ESRS G1 sustainability topic “Management of relationships with suppliers, including payment practices”.

Step 4
In the fourth step, all outcomes of the materiality assessment are explained in detail to the relevant bodies, in particular the Board of Management and the Audit Committee of BMW AG. The resulting conclusions are discussed with the relevant decision makers. If necessary, this is used to adjust selected results of the assessment.

Outcome: The result of the materiality assessment for the
BMW Group was confirmed by the committees of BMW AG after the entire process, including adjustments, was completed.

Comparison with previous period and next review of results
The materiality assessment in accordance with the ESRS was performed for the BMW Group for first time in the 2024 financial year. This means that a comparison with the prior year cannot be made. There will be a review of the results of the assessment of material sustainability topics following the publication of the
2024 BMW Group Report during the 2025 financial year, and on an ongoing basis in the financial years ahead.

Procedures for identifying and assessing material climaterelated and environmental impacts, risks and opportunities
Climate-related impacts
The BMW Group directly and indirectly generates greenhouse gas emissions worldwide through upstream processes, the procurement and processing of raw materials, products and services for development and production, and the supply and use of its

These emissions are assessed, recorded, measured and reported in accordance with the requirements of the Greenhouse
Gas Protocol and the relevant scopes in terms of their significance. As an automobile manufacturer, most of
BMW Group’s emissions are generated during the production of purchased components and during the use of its products (Scope
3). The supply chain’s relevance is growing steadily due to rising emissions caused by the increasing electrification of the
BMW Group’s vehicle fleet. Despite their lower volume compared

to absolute values, the emissions from our own sites (Scopes 1 and 2) are measured and steered because of their direct influence. The procedure for measuring all scopes or categories classified as relevant is firmly established in the BMW Group’s nonfinancial reporting process CO2e footprint, Materiality of the various
Scope 3 categories. These metrics are reviewed internally in the event of significant changes and adjusted if necessary. It is also checked whether there are any changes or additions to the relevant categories with reference to the requirements of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.

To assess the impact of its own business activities on greenhouse gas emissions, the BMW Group has made these analyses an integral part of its long-term corporate planning. The CO2e emissions resulting from sales planning (with a focus on the supply chain and the use phase, as well as own production) are simulated based on current assumptions and checked against the reduction targets. This is used to derive the measures required to achieve the objectives and to initiate their implementation.
Variables that do not correlate to the volume and drivetrain mix are also controlled – for example, the infrastructure of non-manufacturing sites.

Procedure and methodological basis for climate-related risks and opportunities
Climate change may also impact the BMW Group business model in different ways. As a result, the company analyses a wide range of climate scenarios, identifies and measures climate-related risks and opportunities and adopts the relevant measures.

During the 2024 reporting year, all material risks and opportunities for the BMW Group were analysed in terms of their sensitivity regarding three different climate scenarios. For the medium-term period until 2036, it is distinguished between transitory and physical climate risks. For the long-term period until 2050, the assessment focuses on the physical climate risks. Examples of physical climate risks include an increasing frequency and intensity of acute extreme weather events such as heavy rain, hail,

storms and floods, along with longer-term changes in temperature and total rainfall. Transitory risks, by contrast, arise from the transition to a low-emissions economy. These include, among others, regulatory risks, technology risks, capital and financial market risks, and market risks.

The BMW Group uses three scenarios to identify and measure climate-related risks, which are based on the scenarios of the
Shared Socioeconomic Pathways (SSP) of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). The 2014 IPCC Report was used for the scenario analyses in 2023, while the 2023 IPCC Report was used for 2024. These climate scenarios range from a low-emissions scenario with global warming of <+1.5 °C (Paris
Agreement, SSP1-1.9), a medium scenario with an average warming of +2.5 °C (intermediate, SSP2-4.5) to a >+4 °C (fossil-fueled development, SSP5-8.5) scenario.

The wide range of scenarios which could occur over the longterm planning period and beyond covers plausible risks and uncertainties. Physical as well as transitory risks and opportunities are taken into account in internal management and in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements.* » Accounting policies, assumptions, judgments and estimations

Physical climate risks
The three IPCC climate scenarios set out above form the basis for the BMW Group’s risk model for physical climate risks in the entire value chain. To assess these scenarios, site-specific risk data provided by an external insurance company are used for all relevant BMW Group and supplier sites for the medium and long term.

* The attainment of the Paris Agreement targets is part of the BMW Group’s long-term corporate planning, meaning that the low-emission scenario is incorporated into the assumptions for the

Risk-specific data, such as global weather and climate data, a digital elevation model and registered historical events, are used for the various physical risks. The spatial resolution is defined by the finest available representation of the relevant output data.

In terms of physical climate-related risks, the periods mentioned above cover the long-term strategic corporate planning period as well as the expected service life of buildings and facilities.

For the BMW Group, physical climate risks may result in damage to assets such as buildings, vehicles or parts. Climate-related events may also lead to downtime at BMW Group’s own or at suppliers’ sites. Physical climate risks are analysed on a locationspecific basis, for example based on geo-coordinates of the relevant BMW Group sites and supplier sites. The average annual expected damage loss is calculated for each BMW Group or supplier site using the underlying location-related hazard situation, its exposure, and site-related vulnerabilities.

The risk posed by climate change at the respective BMW Group or supplier site is modelled both in the medium and long term
(time dimension) in accordance with the scenarios (intensity dimension) of the globally recognized IPCC Report. Physical climate risks also increase for the BMW Group particularly in the long-term period for 2050 and beyond within the context of the
>+4°C scenario (SSP5-8.5). This affects both BMW Group production sites and supplier sites. Were such an event to occur, it could lead to production interruptions at individual sites. Updates on risks identified in climate scenarios are always taken into account when planning new construction and conversion measures.

After considering the physical climate risks in the various scenarios, the materiality of the risks was assessed in the overarching materiality analysis. The BMW Group has implemented a wide range of measures to mitigate these risks, so that no physical climate risks as defined by the sense of the ESRS are categorised as material. All material climate-related risks are transitory risks.

Transitory climate risks and opportunities
Transitory risks arise from the transition to a low-emissions economy and are assessed for the medium-term using climaterelated risk drivers and qualitative expert assessments. These risks become particularly apparent when conditions change more quickly or differently than expected.

The potential short-term effects of climate change are already included in the short-term risks. All short-term risks from the
BMW Group’s own operations and from the upstream and downstream value chain are assessed for their transitory climate risks.
Risks identified as being both material and climate-relevant are included in the scenario analysis. The potential development of climate-related transitory risks is assessed, as described above, for a medium-term period (2036) and for three global warming scenarios. It is assumed that measures to combat climate change will be less effective in higher scenarios than in a 1.5°C scenario, for example. An assessment is performed based on this premise.

The BMW Group also recognises economic opportunities in the orientation towards the 1.5°C path. These arise from adjustments to products, production processes and the value chain.
The opportunities are derived from the climate risk analysis for the medium-term period in the three different scenarios and evaluated as part of the materiality assessment. Opportunities for the BMW Group are arising particularly from the demand for low-emission products generated by the goal of slowing down climate change, efficiency and transport potential in the carbon footprint in the upstream value chain, as well as the increasing range of BMW Group drivetrain variants and the resulting growing market share among environmentally conscious buyers.

The potential transitory risks are deemed the highest over the medium-term as a result of the rapid, potentially unforeseeable developments in the Paris Agreement global warming scenario.
It cannot be ruled out that more decisive measures will have to be taken globally in the next few years in order to achieve the

<+1.5°C target. As the scenario analysis demonstrates, regulatory requirements introduced at short notice may enter into force, which could have an impact on products, production and supply chains. This also includes changes to calculation and disclosure requirements, which may change the target contribution of measures taken. In addition, competition and demand, especially for electric vehicles, may change in a 1.5°C scenario.

At present, the BMW Group’s strategy is consistent with the transition to a carbon-neutral economy in accordance with
ESRS E1 AR 12(d).

Impact, risks and opportunities in relation to environmental pollution
The identification of significant impacts, risks and opportunities for the topic of environmental pollution takes place at a overarching level as part of the materiality analysis Materiality Assessment.
Information on strategies, targets, measures and metrics is described in Reduction of Environmental Pollution.

Specifically with regard to the issue of environmental pollution, sites with a particular influence on the BMW Group’s business activities are examined more closely. A risk assessment is performed for each site identified as having a particular influence.
For example, the Company’s sites are generally subject to an environmental impact assessment and, depending on the risks involved, certification on a case-by-case basis. Sites with a high risk and a high level of damage are subject to measures to reduce potential damage. New sites are assessed for impacts and risks using environmental due diligence, environmental impact analysis, climate risk assessments and, where required, baseline assessments of biodiversity. Risk mitigation measures derived from these assessments are implemented as required. Furthermore, the BMW Group Environmental Statement includes both a qualitative assessment of the environmental impact of manufacturing technologies at the various sites and, where available, the inclusion and assessment of topics concerning other emissions.
By taking this systematic approach, the BMW Group ensures that the impacts, opportunities and risks are recorded in full and assessed accordingly.

This includes all sites that require an environmental assessment and approval under national law (for example the Federal Immission Control Act [BIMSchG] in Germany). In practice, this includes all production sites, component production, the Research and Innovation Centre (FIZ), test tracks and distribution centres. Other sites such as offices or branches may require country-specific environmental assessments, but are usually examined only as part of building permits due to their lower environmental relevance. These building permits also include environmental impact assessments in accordance with country-specific laws.

A list of the material environmental effects is provided for all technologies and indirect environmental effects (for example employee commuting) in the BMW Group Environmental Statement.

Water-related impacts, risks and opportunities
The materiality assessment also encompasses the identification and assessment of the impacts, risks and opportunities relating to water and marine resources. The LEAP approach1 is applied in this context. For additional environmental information, please specifically regarding the topic of water, Responsible Use of Water
Resources.

Water and marine resources were identified in the first phase. Impacts related to water and marine resources that have been assessed include:

— Water: consumption of surface and groundwater as well as

withdrawals and discharges

— Marine resources: extraction and use of these resources and

related economic activities

In this phase, the Aqueduct tool2 was used to identify the geographic areas affected by water-related risks, along with the areas where there is an interface with marine resources that could lead to significant impacts and dependencies. The following were considered:

— BMW Group sites and the associated upstream and downstream activities along the value chain
— Sites in areas subject to high water stress
— Sectors or business lines that interface with water or marine

resources at these priority locations

In the second phase, the materiality of the impacts and dependencies were assessed using river basins as the relevant level for the site assessment and combining this with an operational risk assessment. The Company took into account the criteria of the
Water Framework Directive 2000/60/EG and its guidelines.

The following steps were undertaken with regard to the sites selected in the first phase:

Identification of business processes and activities that lead to impacts and dependencies on water and marine resources

— Assessment of the severity and probability of occurrence of

positive and negative impacts

In the third phase, risks and opportunities were assessed. The basis is created from the results of the first two phases, including:

— Transitory risks and opportunities:

legal and political changes, technological progress, shifts in the market and reputational risk

— Physical risks: water scarcity, water stress and deterioration

in water quality

— Opportunities: resource efficiency, market diversification

and financing opportunities

The analysis concluded that the consumption of water is material both in the BMW Group’s own operations and in the upstream supply chain. Measures to reduce water consumption and use alternative sources of water, such as rainwater, were developed specifically for the Company’s own facilities as early as 2009, when sustainability targets were first introduced. Please refer to
Social and Environmental Responsibility in the Supplier Network for information on water withdrawal and concepts for the sustainable use of water.

The BMW Group’s production sites, vehicle test facilities and joint ventures located in areas subject to water stress are indicated in the table.

Locate, Evaluate, Assess and Prepare.

on water risks and ESG risks, among other things. The database was used to compare the BMW
Group’s sites with locations subject to water risk.

Sites by water stress level*

Water stress level

Site(s)

Country

Extremely high water stress

High water stress

Medium to high water stress

Granada
Oxnard
Chennai
Rosslyn

Berlin
Leipzig
Miramas
Oxford
Swindon
Spartanburg
Dadong
Tiexi
Rayong

Eisenach
Wackersdorf
Goodwood
San Luis Potosí
Zhangjiagang

Spain
India
South Africa

Germany
Germany
France
China
China
Thailand

Germany
Germany
Mexico
China

Low to medium water stress

Hams Hall

Low water stress

Munich
Dingolfing
Landshut
Regensburg
Eching
Aschheim
Steyr
Arjeplog
Araquari
Manaus

Germany
Germany
Germany
Germany
Germany
Germany
Austria
Sweden
Brazil
Brazil

* The share of water consumption at non-production-related sites in areas subject to water stress excluding vehicle testing facilities is relatively low, which is why the other non-production-related sites are not listed separately.

Description of material impacts, risks and opportunities and their link to strategy and business model the material impacts, risks and opportunities were evaluated for the first time in accordance with the double materiality requirements for sustainability topics. A total of 85 material impacts, risks and opportunities were identified. These can be assigned to the BMW Group’s business model and economic activities, as well as to the upstream or downstream value chain. The material impacts, risks and opportunities can be categorised under the 31 sustainability sub-topics and sub-sub-topics defined in ESRS 1
(see figure).

A full outline and explanation of all material sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities identified can be found in the positive impacts have on people and the environment, or could have in the case of potential impacts. For each impact, risk and opportunity listed, it also indicates whether or not they are also addressed by company-specific disclosures. The time horizons in which the material impacts, risks and opportunities are expected to occur are also included. Most of the material impacts have already materialised.

Because the methodology for the materiality assessment has been adjusted to reflect the first-time application of the ESRS requirements, it is not possible to make a comparison of the material impacts, risks and opportunities with the previous year.

Material sustainability topics of BMW Group for Financial Year 2024 following ESRS

E (Environmental)

S (Social)

G (Governance)

E1 Climate Change

S1 Own Workforce

G1 Business Conduct

Political engagement and

lobbying activities

Corruption and bribery – Prevention and detection including training

Climate change adaptation

Climate change mitigation

Energy

E2 Pollution

Pollution of water

Pollution of soil

Microplastic

Health and safety
Gender equality and equal pay for

work of equal

Diversity

Training and skills development

Secure employment
Social dialogue

S2 Workers in the value chain

E3 Water and Marine Resources

Working time

Water consumption

Water withdrawals

E4 Biodiversity

Direct exploitation

E5 Circular Economy

Resources inflows, including resource use

Resource outflows related to products and services

Waste

Freedom of association, including the existence of work councils

Health and safety

Training and skills development

Measures against violence and harassment in the workplace

Child labour

Forced labour

S4 Consumers and End-Users

Access to (quality) information
Privacy
Health and safety

Protection of children

Upstream material Own Operations material Downstream material Materiality assessment requires the consideration of the total value chain.

As part of the environmental analysis, material sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities are also evaluated in terms of their effect on the strategy and business model, underlying assumptions are reviewed, and strategic goals are aligned accordingly » Environmental Analysis. The BMW Group’s strategy forms the baseline for its consistent focus on sustainability » Cornerstones of the Strategy. With its products, the BMW Group is contributing to sustainable development and, with its business activities, aims to create a connection between business, the environment and society. The strategy’s key areas of focus take into account material impacts, risks and opportunities across the entire value chain. This involves, in particular, all drivetrain technologies with a strong focus on electromobility, digitalisation to strengthen customer interaction and products, and increasing sustainability along the entire value chain, including circularity. The heterogeneous nature and increasing complexity of the regulatory requirements and the material impacts, risks and opportunities that arise as a result are incorporated into the BMW Group’s position and strategy development process. An overview of how the
BMW Group takes the current and expected future effects of key material impacts, risks and opportunities into account in its business model, value chain and corporate strategy can be found in
» Position - What does the BMW Group stand for?, » Direction –What drives the
BMW Group?, » Strategic approach –Where is the BMW Group heading? and
» Collaboration –How does the BMW Group achieve this?.

Only in certain cases do material impacts arise out of the
BMW Group’s strategy and its business model. They arise primarily from the business activities and relationships of the BMW
Group. This applies particularly to material impacts in the upstream and downstream value chain. The chapters » Position What does the BMW Group stand for?, » Direction –What drives the
BMW Group?, » Strategic approach –Where is the BMW Group heading? and
» Collaboration –How does the BMW Group achieve this? discuss the key strategic priorities and areas of focus relating to material impacts, risks and opportunities. The BMW Group directly and indirectly generates greenhouse gas emissions worldwide through

upstream processes, the procurement and processing of raw materials, products and services for development and production, and the supply and use of its own products and services. By offering electrified vehicles (BEV, PHEV, FCEV) and expanding the use of cost-effective CO2e-free energy, including through
PPAs, the BMW Group is contributing to progressive decarbonisation Position – What does the BMW Group stand for?. Strategic measures to reduce direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions worldwide may necessitate adjustments within the supply chain and exert pressure on suppliers to adapt.

The circular economy is a key component of the BMW Group’s strategy. Incorporating the principles of the circular economy into business models and products may be an important step towards reducing the use of natural and limited resources. Reducing the use of primary materials contributes to the reduction of
CO2 emissions and the preservation of biodiversity, and mitigates the impacts on the environment and society that are associated with the extraction and processing of primary materials. For these reasons, the BMW Group is taking further steps to increase the proportion of recycled materials in its products » Strategic approach – Where is the BMW Group heading?.

With regard to its own workforce, diversity is an important element of the BMW Group’s competitiveness. The proportion of women in management positions is a strategic target variable.
The BMW Group consistently supports its employees to acquire new professional qualifications and to achieve their personal development goals. The BMW Group supports the training and further education of its employees and helps them to remain productive by providing initial and further training at all locations
» Collaboration – How does the BMW Group achieve this?, Own workforce.

All other material impacts identified do not arise from the strategy or business model of the BMW Group and also do not have a material effect on their future development. » The BMW Group
Strategy

Strengthening the resilience of its strategy and business model in terms of managing material impacts and risks and making use of material opportunities is a key concern of the BMW Group.
Therefore, it is important to recognise changes in the environment early on, consider alternative development scenarios, effectively manage risks and take advantage of opportunities that may arise from such changes » Risks and Opportunities. For this reason, the resilience analysis is conducted across the organisation and includes all topics of relevance to the BMW Group. This also includes sustainability topics and related risks and opportunities.
A regularly updated analysis of the environment based on selected and relevant topics also forms the basis for this
» Environmental Analysis. This also includes an assessment of political and regulatory framework conditions » Economy, » Politics.

The BMW Group aims to reduce the influence of exogenous factors, particularly those related to sustainability, by expanding the resilience of its global supply chains. » Expanding resilient supply chains, »
Purchasing battery cells. Forward-looking risk management helps to strengthen the resilience of the supplier network. » Risk management in purchasing. Digitalisation across the entire supply chain provides the basis for sustainable and resilient supply chain management. » Digitalisation in the supply chain.

The resilience analysis relating to biodiversity and ecosystems is discussed in Resilience analysis.

Current financial effects of material risks and opportunities
Competition in the electrified vehicle market intensified in the reporting year. The financial effects of this development are discussed in » Earnings Performance of the BMW Group.

Regulatory restrictions mean that certain energy sources, such as biogas, can no longer be used for emission reduction measures. Hedging activities ensured that financial effects for the BMW Group were completely avoided.

No material risks or opportunities have been identified for which there is a significant probability of occurrence in 2025 that would result in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities recognised in the corresponding financial statements.

The BMW Group attaches great importance to regular, frank and transparent dialogue with its stakeholders. The goal is to build trust, increase transparency and awareness, and facilitate the transfer of knowledge by providing information and opportunities for dialogue.

in 2024, and in doing so also reviewed and redefined its key stakeholders. A distinction is made between affected stakeholders and users of sustainability statements. In addition, the individual stakeholders are summarised in stakeholder groups.
Stakeholders are affected directly or indirectly by our business activities, while users of sustainability statements mainly include consumers of general reporting – for example, investors or business partners.

The BMW Group promotes the exchange of ideas and information with stakeholders in all of its business activities and maintains an ongoing dialogue with them in individual discussions, at conferences, or in response to specific queries. Material sustainability-related topics such as climate change, biodiversity or the transition to a circular economy, as well as working conditions in their own business area or other employee-related topics, are also discussed. The form of engagement taken depends on the initial situation. In addition to specific dialogues and interactions with stakeholders, for example during London Climate Week, the
BMW Group also regularly participates in public and political discussions and engages in intensive dialogue with capital market participants. This approach helps to establish lasting relationships, to inform the BMW Group about its impacts on (affected) stakeholders and to enhance processes for future stakeholder engagement activities. Incorporating a range of external viewpoints and expectations helps further develop the strategy » The
BMW Group Strategy and promotes the innovative strength of the
BMW Group.

The BMW Group uses the feedback and results from its stakeholder engagement in its environmental and trend analyses, which are in turn incorporated into the development of its

corporate and business department strategies. To this end, the
HR strategy is reviewed annually using a comprehensive internal and external analysis of the environment and the company, and adjusted accordingly as and when required. Market research, a component of the corporate strategy, is conducted in the form of global surveys to determine customer needs and expectations.
The findings from these and other surveys and analyses, including input from experts, form the basis for strategic recommendations for the entire Company, individual departments and
BMW Group brands.

The Board of Management keeps itself regularly informed at its meetings on feedback from stakeholders and their views, either by means of separate documents or via direct dialogue with stakeholders such as investors or political decision makers. Briefings by in-house departments supplement the information provided to the Board of Management, especially before attending major events such as OECD conferences or Annual General
Meetings. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board of BMW AG also maintains regular contact with stakeholders. Moreover, the members of the Supervisory Board of BMW AG attend the Annual General Meeting of BMW AG, and also interact with stakeholders as part of their other activities and mandates.

The BMW Group also takes account of its most important external stakeholders in its materiality assessment. For further information, see Procedure and methodological basis for the materiality assessment.

its most

important stakeholder groups,

As one of
BMW Group’s workforce plays an active role in shaping the Company’s future direction. The BMW Group conducts a companywide employee survey every two years to measure the performance of the organisation and the general mood among its workforce. Employees also have a key opportunity to participate through the company ideas management system, which can be used to submit ideas outside of their area of responsibility. The due diligence processes for respecting human rights and related environmental standards apply to our own business, our suppliers, and our other business partners. Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue

All stakeholders - from customers to scientists to affected communities – have the opportunity to connect with the BMW Group through various communication channels. In addition to using the Group’s main email addresses, stakeholders can report compliance-related concerns through the BMW Group Compliance
Contact or the BMW Group SpeakUP Line. The BMW Group SpeakUP
Line can be reached in all countries in which BMW Group employees work via local, toll-free telephone numbers in more than
30 languages. All reports received by the BMW Group through these communication channels are carefully reviewed in compliance with applicable regulations. In particular, the BMW Group observes the prohibition on penalising whistleblowers acting in good faith.

Likewise, the BMW Group works either directly with the affected communities or with their local representatives. For example, local stakeholders are closely involved in the planning of the new assembly plant for high-voltage batteries in Irlbach-Strasskirchen. Through a variety of measures, the Company has created transparency and opportunities for dialogue and has therefore attached great importance to taking the interests of local residents and communities fully into account and working together to find a solution. In addition, BMW Group locations have designated contacts who are responsible for maintaining relations with local stakeholders. They serve as the first point of contact between the Company and its neighbours. Maintaining an ongoing dialogue with civil society, affected communities and other relevant stakeholders in the supply chain is another key component in our approach to dealing with critical raw materials. The
BMW Group Supplier Code of Conduct stipulates that affected (local) communities, and indigenous peoples especially, must also be taken into account and protected across the supply chain. As part of the responsible management of raw materials and with a view to mitigating social impacts, specific areas of focus have been identified that, for example, justify local involvement. To help ensure compliance with social and environmental standards, we have put due diligence processes in place, both across the organisation and in our relationships with suppliers and other business partners. The Purchasing and Supplier Network department is responsible for developing the procedures and implementing due diligence processes in the supply chain. In 2024, this responsibility was firmly embedded in our purchasing strategy and strengthened by the establishment of a dedicated department. Social and Environmental Responsibility in the Supplier Network

The BMW Group stays abreast of the latest scientific findings and, to this end, engages in a targeted dialogue with scientists about sustainability targets in a range of different formats. The
International Sustainable Mobility Research Platform (ISMO) is an international research partnership established in 2024. In addition to the BMW Group, it includes four internationally renowned universities: the University of Cambridge in the UK, the
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg in Germany, Harvard University in the USA, and Tsinghua University in China.
The objective of the collaboration is to conduct research into sustainability and develop scientifically sound approaches that will help develop our strategy. The Board of Management of
BMW AG plays an active role in the partnership and will be involved in discussing the research results twice a year from 2025.
The first meeting took place in 2024. The ISMO makes a significant contribution by keeping management informed about important changes in the operating environment and supporting the development of business strategies in line with the latest scientific insights.

The BMW Group is also actively engaged in both industry-specific and cross-industry initiatives. These include the Branchendialog Automobilindustrie, the Supply Chain Sustainability Working Group of the German Association of the Automotive Industry
(VDA), the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), and Drive Sustainability. Some of these are multi-stakeholder initiatives involving companies as well as trade unions and NGOs that represent the interests of value chain workers. The BMW Group’s involvement in these initiatives is ongoing. The BMW Group is involved in RBA Voices, a standardised, cross-industry grievance mechanism available for download from the Apple App Store and the
Google Play Store.

Stakeholder groups and exemplary forms of dialogue

Politics

Media

Networks

Civil society

Suppliers

Discussion rounds/ round tables, working groups/mobility council, association meeting

Employees

Partners

Financial world

Lectures at and cooperation with schools and universities/chairs, mobility council, ISMO

Customers

Science

Trade fairs/ press conferences, press information/ press releases, presentations

Discussions with consumer bodies, customer satisfaction surveys and market research
(e.g. Corporate Reputation Study), My BMW App

Participation of company experts in committees and working groups, memberships in initiatives and associations

Conferences for/with investors and analysts, financial statement press conference

BMW Group award for social responsibility

Dialogues with dealership organizations of the markets and importers, partner academy

BMW Group in dialogue

Supplier theme days

Dialogue tools for all stakeholder groups:
Dialogues, one-to-one meetings, BMW Welt/BMW museum/plant tours, events, general meeting press releases, company website, brand website, Social Media, rankings, conferences, industry/sector dialogues, studies
Speak-up Hotline, policies und statements, quarterly and annual report

Various dialogue formats

Internal communication, dialogues with managers, idea management process, employee survey, BMW Group
Academy, works council meeting, collective agreements and employment contracts with trade unions

* Affected stakeholders.

AG is a stock corporation (Aktiengesellschaft) within the meaning of the German Stock Corporation Act. It has an executive Board of Management and a Supervisory Board that monitors how the Company is managed by the Board of Management.

Board of Management – Duties, diversity, expertise
The Board of Management has overall responsibility for the management of BMW AG. It defines the strategy and resource framework and takes actions to implement the strategy. The
Board of Management decides on product and customer-related issues of particular importance and consequence to the BMW
Group, as well as on automobile product strategy. The Board of
Management incorporates various sustainability matters into the decisions taken at its meetings and addresses the material impacts, risks and opportunities associated with the Company’s course of business. It also monitors the key sustainability-related indicators and targets as well as department-specific sustainability activities and developments. Details are available in the
Rules of Procedure of the Board of Management of BMW AG.

As at 31 December 2024, 14% of the seven members of the
Board of Management were female and 86% were male based on the composition principles and taking into account the ESRS reporting obligations.

In addition to the overall responsibility of the Board of Management, each member of the Board of Management is independently responsible for the material impacts, risks and opportunities in their respective department.

To ensure that the Board of Management has the necessary level of competence and diversity, the Supervisory Board has adopted a competency and diversity policy for the composition of the Board of Management, which is also aligned with the recommendations contained in the German Corporate Governance
Code (DCGK). In view of the fact that the Board of Management

is a representative body of the Company, the Supervisory Board is careful to consider diversity-related issues when assessing which candidates are most suitable for a seat on the Board of
Management. “Diversity” in the context of the decision-making process is understood by the Supervisory Board to encompass various complementary individual profiles and work and life experiences at both national and international level, as well as the appropriate representation of genders. In reaching its decisions, the Supervisory Board also considers the following factors:

— Board of Management members need to have a longstanding track record of management experience, ideally in a variety of professional fields. An adequate mix of different professional and management skills is sought here.

— At least two members should have international management experience.

— At least two members of the Board of Management should

have a technical background.

— Collectively, the Board of Management should have extensive experience in the fields of individual mobility, development, production, sales, finances and personnel management.

The Board of Management must comprise at least one man and one woman. The Board of Management deals with the impacts, risks and opportunities arising from business development on a continuous basis. In addition to addressing reports related to the latest business developments, the Board of Management regularly discusses the current market environment, financial and non-financial risks, the Group risk strategy and the effectiveness of the risk management system and the internal control system.
The Board of Management also deals with the development of the workforce, diversity, and ongoing qualification and retraining measures several times a year as part of the transformation process Just Transition - Developing expertise for the future. The Board of
Management is kept up to date about ongoing compliance activities and potential risks at regular intervals via the Chief Compliance Officer’s compliance reports. In addition to discussing the audit results regarding the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Compliance Management System (CMS), the Board of Management also discusses the structural and organisational development of the Group Compliance Management System (CMS)

and the implementation status of corporate due diligence requirements relating to respect for human rights and associated environmental standards along the value chain. In addition, the
Board of Management holds regular discussions on the processes and actions involved in implementing new regulatory requirements and ensuring compliance with external reporting requirements in the area of sustainability, including the extent to which CSRD/ESRS requirements have been implemented.

Sustainability considerations are therefore integrated into the
BMW Group’s corporate structures and processes in a comprehensive and holistic manner which involves decision makers at various levels. A decentralised approach is taken to integrate the
Company’s strategic objectives. Defined specialist functions in each of the Board departments are responsible for anchoring the targets within the respective organisational structure, measuring their achievement, and ensuring compliance with the strategy.

The strategy is translated into an annually revised, long-term corporate plan using a control loop-based planning and management system. A target system monitors their progress, and reports on the targets and performance indicators agreed for the reporting year are submitted to the Board of Management and
Supervisory Board on a regular basis. The Board of Management defines the BMW Group’s strategic objectives related to the sustainability topics. The Sustainability and Mobility function ensures the high level management of sustainability topics as part of the Group strategy. It identifies areas where the Company potentially needs to take action, defines the targets to be achieved, and prepares corresponding resolutions to the Board of Management. The function is also responsible for ensuring that sustainability issues and all relevant material impacts, risks and opportunities are considered in all material decisions made by the
Company, including at the level of the Board of Management.
This includes significant transactions. The function submits progress reports on the BMW Group’s overarching sustainability targets to the Board of Management at least three times a year. The targets and measures with regard to reducing CO2e emissions in all scopes, the circular economy, environmental and social standards and social sustainability are presented, and the strategic and operational implementation status is discussed. When targets are not met, suitable actions are discussed and approved if

necessary. In addition, the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board regularly discuss the further development of the various key topics from the sustainability strategy. The identified material impacts, risks and opportunities are also taken into consideration. Even though these discussions are informative in nature, they also include decision papers, each orientated towards current thematic developments. The results of the materiality assessment, including the material impacts, risks and opportunities, are presented to the Board of Management by the Group material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities. Material impacts, risks and opportunities are also discussed by the Board of Management on a regular basis when updating the environmental analysis.

The Board of Management sets the organisational, structural and content-related framework for business conduct, ensures that it is dovetailed with and integrated into the Company’s management and governance systems, and receives reports on their implementation. This is also true for the topics of Combating corruption and bribery and Political engagement and lobbying activities Governance Information. The Supervisory Board receives reports on business conduct as part of its monitoring activities.

In addition, the Board of Management of BMW AG has established the following committees with the participation of Board of
Management members to address selected topics of particular importance in greater depth and across departments:

— The Board of Management’s Digitalisation Committee
(VA-D): The VA-D advises and makes cross-departmental decisions on all material issues related to improving and digitalising the BMW Group’s corporate processes, and thereby makes a decisive contribution to ensuring that the Group’s performance is guided by its strategy. In this context, the
VA-D deals with overarching IT projects, IT platforms and IT initiatives, in addition to process-specific and digital performance levers and key performance indicators (KPIs). The
VA-D also consistently addresses obstacles to transformation within the Company and defines the transformation

Skills matrix Board of Management

Experience

(Access to) expertise

In relevant markets

In relevant areas of competence

Sustainability

Europe

China

Other

Individual mobility

Corporate strategy

Technologies

Production

Sales

Finance

Climate change

Pollution

Water and marine resources

Biodiversity and ecosystems

Circular economy and resource use

Own workforce

Personnel management

Workers in the value chain

Digitalisation

Supply chain

Development

Consumers and end-users

Business conduct

focus, timing and resources, as well as the financial control model for platforms/data. Moreover, the VA-D is responsible for prioritising/financing innovations in the area of digitalisation as well as strategic recruiting measures and qualification programmes to ensure our employees have relevant skills.

— The Board of Management’s Senior Executives Committee
(VA-F): The VA-F deals with issues affecting managers of the BMW Group, either in their entirety or individually, such as the management structure, employees with particularly high levels of potential, and the appointment of senior executives (OFK). The relevant specialist functions present information about general HR-related issues and developments to the VA-F so that the future direction of the Company’s personnel can be set as early as possible. In this context, the

VA-F can act as a decision-making body, issue advice, make recommendations, or act in a preparatory function, depending on the circumstances.

— The Board of Management’s Operations Committee
(VA-O): The VA-O provides advice and makes cross-departmental decisions related to automobile product projects following confirmation by the Board of Management. In this context, the VA-O deals with the operational implementation of vehicle projects, strategic modules from the development process to the start of production/market launch, ongoing series production and further development. In addition, the VA-O monitors the objectives set for focus and quality topics for automobile product projects and shapes the procedural framework for its area of responsibility across departments.

In December 2024, members of the Board of Management were surveyed for the first time on their specific sustainability skills relating to the key sustainability topics. The skills matrix for the
Board of Management provides an overview of its sustainabilityrelated expertise. This covers all sustainability topics for which material impacts, risks and opportunities were identified in the department of BMW AG verifies the plausibility of the information provided by the members of the Board of Management.

If it transpires that the Board of Management does not have its own detailed expertise in certain areas, it can draw directly on the expertise and experience of the relevant departments that have knowledge of the material sustainability matters. The Board of
Management is also permitted to use external resources such as training courses and experts at any time. Reviews are performed on a regular basis to ensure the availability of relevant expertise and necessary skills. If necessary, structural adjustments are made and relevant expertise is added or deepened.

The skills matrix also indicates the experience of the Board of
Management that is of relevance given the BMW Group’s sectors, products and geographical locations.

Supervisory Board - Composition, diversity, expertise
AG’s Supervisory Board is composed of ten shareholder representatives (elected by the Annual General Meeting) and ten employee representatives (elected in accordance with the German Co-Determination Act). In the event of an early departure from the Board – for example, if a member resigns – the responsible court will appoint a new member of the Supervisory Board for the remainder of the term of office on request. The Supervisory Board members representing employees comprise seven
Company employees, including one senior executive staff representative, and three members elected following nomination by trade unions.

The DCGK recommends that more than half of the shareholder representatives should be independent, i.e. independent of the
Company and its Board of Management, as well as of a controlling shareholder. To be independent, a member of the Supervisory Board cannot have any personal or business relationship with the Company or its Board of Management that could give rise to a material and lasting conflict of interest. Eight of the ten shareholder representatives (80%) on the Supervisory Board of
BMW AG are classified as independent.

The Supervisory Board must be composed in such a way that its members collectively possess the knowledge, skills and experience required to perform its tasks in a proper manner. To this end, BMW AG’s Supervisory Board passes annual resolutions specifying objectives regarding its composition, including a competency profile and a diversity policy.

— The Supervisory Board is required to include at least six independent shareholder representatives within the meaning of the recommendations of the GCGC.

— The chairs of the Supervisory Board, the Audit Committee and the Personnel Committee – which is involved in preparing decisions on Board of Management remuneration – should be independent of BMW AG and of the Board of
Management. The chairperson of the Supervisory Board may not serve as the chair of the Audit Committee.

— When seeking suitably qualified individuals for the Supervisory Board whose specialist skills and leadership qualities are most likely to be an asset to the Board as a whole, consideration also needs to be given to diversity. When preparing nominations, the extent to which the work of the Supervisory Board will benefit from diverse professional and personal backgrounds (including international experience) and appropriate gender representation should be considered on a case-by-case basis. It is the joint responsibility of all those participating in the nomination and election process to ensure that qualified women are considered for Supervisory
Board membership.

If possible, the Supervisory Board should have at least four members that have international experience or specialised knowledge of one or more non-German markets important to the BMW Group.

— Furthermore, if possible, the Supervisory Board should include seven members who have in-depth knowledge and experience within the BMW Group, no more than two of whom may be former members of the Board of Management.

— Three members of the Supervisory Board should preferably have previous experience in the management or supervision of another medium-sized or large company.

— The Supervisory Board should ideally have expertise in the areas relevant to the Company, namely corporate strategy, technology, purchasing/supply chains, production/manufacturing, sales/customer needs, finance/accounting/auditing, capital markets, resources/personnel management, compliance, IT/digitalisation/artificial intelligence, change management/business transformation. Each member of the Supervisory Board should have expertise in at least one of these areas.

individual mobility, human

— Three members of the Supervisory Board should preferably have expertise in the sustainability issues that are of key importance to the Company.

The gender ratio on the Supervisory Board is in line with statutory requirements. Since the Act on Equal Participation of
Women and Men in Management Positions in the Private and the
Public Sector (“Act on Equal Gender Participation”) came into effect in 2016, a minimum of 30% of the members of the Supervisory Board of BMW AG have been female and a maximum of
70% have been male. Female members made up 30% of the
Supervisory Board at the end of 2024.

BMW AG surveys the members of the Supervisory Board on an annual basis regarding their individual skills and expertise. BMW
AG began surveying the members of the Supervisory Board in
2022 to determine their experience in the areas of relevance to the BMW Group on the basis of the DCGK. The results of the survey are published in the form of a matrix. This survey includes questions about expertise in the areas of environmental and social sustainability.

December 2024 marked the first time that Supervisory Board members were asked about their specific sustainability expertise in the sustainability matters of relevance to the Company within the meaning of the ESRS. The results of the survey and the experience of Supervisory Board members in relation to the sectors, products and geographical locations that are material for the BMW Group are shown in the matrix below. The sustainability-related expertise of the Supervisory Board, including access to such expertise, covers all of the sustainability topics for which material impacts, risks and opportunities were identified in the
Materiality Assessment.

Responsibility for completing the questionnaires in accordance with the GCGC and ESRS lies with each individual member of the
Supervisory Board. The Legal Affairs, Patents, Group Compliance Management department of BMW AG verifies the plausibility of the information provided by respondents.

The experience and expertise of the Supervisory Board members regarding key aspects of corporate policy and their expertise related to the sustainability matters of relevance to the Company are primarily derived from their professional training or academic education, their main professional roles, and management or supervisory mandates at other companies. They are also able to access expertise of this nature through training sessions, expert consultations, and specialized articles.

BMW AG provides training events for the members of the Supervisory Board on a regular basis. This training regularly covers sustainability matters. In 2023, training topics included an indepth exploration of electromobility and hydrogen technology, an detailed discussion of processes for implementing carbon reduction targets in the supply chain. In 2024, the circular economy was a focus topic. During a tour of the Tiexi plant on a trip to
China in June 2024, Supervisory Board members received an

Skills matrix Supervisory Board

Experience

(Access to) expertise

In relevant markets

In relevant areas of competence

Sustainability

Europe

China

Other

Individual mobility

Corporate strategy

Technologies

Production

Sales

Finance

Climate change

Pollution

Water and marine resources

Biodiversity and ecosystems

Circular economy and resource use

Own workforce

Personnel management

Workers in the value chain

Digitalisation

Supply chain

Consumers and end-users

Business conduct

overview of the production footprint. The circular economy was also highlighted in a presentation by an external speaker at
Tsinghua University in Beijing. A guided tour of the BMW Group’s
Cell Manufacturing Competence Centre in Parsdorf near Munich gave the members a deeper insight into battery production and technology. Following the election of a new Supervisory Board member, the BMW Legal Affairs, Patents, Group Compliance
Management department informs the new member of the principal legal issues affecting their duties as well as corporate governance aspects. Moreover, the organisation submits various onboarding plans to introduce new members to topics that are important for the work of the Supervisory Board. The introduction to the corporate strategy provided to members of the Supervisory Board covers the strategic approach to material sustainability topics.

Supervisory board – Duties and committees
The Supervisory Board monitors the activities of the Board of
Management and advises the Board of Management on important matters relating to the management and the strategic development of the Group. Sustainability issues and their associated material impacts, risks and opportunities are of key importance to the Supervisory Board.

— At each of its meetings, the Board of Management presents the material impacts, risks and opportunities related to the latest business developments in its report on the current business situation.

— The Supervisory Board monitors significant selected material impacts, risks and opportunities of the Board of
Management’s plans as part of its handling of the corporate strategy, long-term corporate planning, taking into account sustainability matters, in particular environmental and social aspects and objectives, and the

planning of business development for the following financial year. The Supervisory Board addresses all strategically significant plans, transactions and measures for the Group, especially if these fundamentally change the Group’s prospects for success or risk position. The results of the materiality assessment are presented to the Supervisory Board by the Member of the Board of
Management for Finance Materiality
Assessment. The approval of the Supervisory Board is required for material changes to the corporate and product strategy as well as important transactions that are of fundamental strategic importance. Long-term corporate planning and business development planning for the upcoming financial year are submitted to the Supervisory Board on an annual basis for approval.

responsible

In the annual risk report, the Board of Management provides the Supervisory Board with a detailed overview of the current risk situation, as well as the risk management system and risk strategy. This includes sustainability matters.

In accordance with its rules of procedure, the Supervisory Board of BMW AG has a number of committees with different duties
(see in particular the Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory Board of
BMW AG). Sustainability topics play an integral part in this structure.

In the 2024 financial year, the Supervisory Board had a Presiding Board and four committees, namely the Personnel Committee, the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the
Mediation Committee.

The Supervisory Board passed a resolution to restructure its committees and implemented the resolution on 1 January 2025.
Instead of the Personnel Committee a Remuneration Committee was created, which focuses exclusively on the remuneration of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. The Presiding Board was transferred to a Presiding Committee, which, to preparing Supervisory Board meetings, in addition addresses non-remuneration-related personnel matters. The

Remuneration Committee has seven members, strengthening both its independence and its diversity.

As the report on the activities of the Supervisory Board and its committees primarily focuses on the 2024 financial year, the following disclosures are based on the committee structure that was in place in 2024.

The committees are involved as follows in the monitoring of material impacts, risks and opportunities:

— The Presiding Board prepares the Supervisory Board meetings, assuming the subject matter to be discussed does not fall within the remit of any of the Committees. This includes preparatory work on the following topics and their associated impacts, risks and opportunities, including sustainability matters: corporate strategy, long-term corporate planning and business development planning for the following financial year; changes related to corporate governance;
and the declaration of compliance with the recommendations of the DCGK in accordance with § 161 of the German
Stock Corporation Act.

— The Audit Committee reviews the financial reporting and oversees the financial reporting process, including reporting on sustainability matters. It prepares the Supervisory of Management. The Committee also reviews interim reports with the Board of Management before their publication. Moreover, the Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the external audit. In connection with the Company’s and the Group’s sustainability reporting, the Audit Committee prepares the internal audit for the Supervisory Board, decides on an external audit and commissions an external auditor. The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control system, including the internal audit system and the internal Compliance Management System, as well as the internal risk management system, and is therefore deeply involved in monitoring material impacts, risks and opportunities. The Committee receives

detailed reports every six months on risk management and risk strategy, the current risk situation, and the extent to which the risk cover funds have been utilised. ESG risks are included in these reports. The Chief Compliance Officer reports to the Audit Committee on compliance matters and changes to the Compliance Management System twice a year while taking the Board of Management’s due diligence responsibilities into consideration. He also reports to the Supervisory Board once a year.

— The Personnel Committee prepares decisions with regard to the appointment and, where applicable, revocation of the appointment of members of the Board of Management. Its preparatory activities also extend to remuneration of the
Board of Management and regular review of the remuneration system for the Board of Management in light of sustainability targets. The Personnel Committee also monitors the extent to which the targets established in this area have been achieved.

— The Nomination Committee prepares election proposals for shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board for the Annual General Meeting while taking the objectives regarding
Supervisory Board - Composition, diversity, expertise.

into account, as outlined

its composition

Over the course of the 2024 financial year, the Presiding Board and the Supervisory Board addressed sustainability matters, with a particular focus on the progress being made in electromobility and the prospects for hydrogen technology and the circular economy. A report to the Presiding Board and Supervisory Board at the end of the year addressed key strategic personnel topics and the status of diversity in the Company. The Audit Committee explored the responsible use of water, along with the associated material impacts, risks and opportunities.

Every September, the Supervisory Board receives a report from the Chairman of the Board of Management and the Board of
Management member responsible for Finance on the extent to which key ESG targets have been achieved. These include targets for reducing carbon emissions, the proportion of all-electric vehicles to total deliveries, the fulfilment of sustainability

requirements by suppliers, the proportion of women in management positions, and the amount of spending on employee training and development. The Audit Committee accords special attention to the audit of the non-financial statement. The achievement of material ESG targets is also discussed as part of the reporting on the annual and Group Financial Statements. These are also part of the remuneration system for the Board of Management. The Board of Management’s remuneration targets for each year are set in December of the previous year. A meeting is held in March to review the extent to which the targets for the past financial year have been achieved and to pass a resolution on the Board of Management’s remuneration.

Information about the Company’s Governing Constitution is provided in the Corporate Governance Statement. This is prepared by the
Presiding Board and is adopted by resolution of the Supervisory
Board.

B O A R D

Board of Management
The total remuneration provided to the members of the Board of
Management consists of fixed and variable components. The fixed, non-performance-related remuneration comprises the base salary, fringe benefits and contributions to the company pension scheme. The variable remuneration consists of the bonus and the long-term share-based remuneration. Variable remuneration accounts for 58-66% of the total target remuneration. At 100% target achievement, the bonus accounts for 2730% of the total target remuneration, while the share-based remuneration accounts for 31-36%.

Overview of total target remuneration for members of the
Board of Management1

Fringe benefits²

Contributions
Retirement benefits

Base salary

Variable
Remuneration

Share-based
Remuneration

Bonus

depicted.

salary losses from a previous employment relationship and/or to cover relocation costs.

The bonus consists of an earnings component and a performance component. If 100% of the target is achieved for both the performance and the earnings component, the share of the bonus attached to each component is 50% of the individual target amount of the bonus. The earnings component of the bonus rewards the performance of the business in the vesting year, as

measured by financial indicators. The performance component of the bonus rewards the achievement of certain non-financial performance criteria defined by the Supervisory Board. These criteria are divided into individual targets for the individual members of the Board of Management (departmental targets) and collective targets for the entire Board of Management (interdepartmental targets). Departmental targets account for 10% of the target amount for the performance component, with interdepartmental targets accounting for the remaining 90%. The interdepartmental targets include sustainability-related performance criteria and other non-financial criteria. With regard to the interdepartmental targets, 50% of the weighting is for sustainabilityrelated targets, and 40% is for other non-financial targets, in each case in relation to the target amount of the performance component of the bonus. As part of the share-based remuneration as a variable long-term component of remuneration, the members of the Board of Management receive a cash payment earmarked for investment (the “personal cash investment amount”). The amount depends on the target achievement level for a financial indicator (return on capital employed (RoCE) in the
Automotive Segment) and for defined non-financial indicators
(“strategic focus targets”) in the vesting year. If 100% of the target is achieved, the RoCE component and the strategic focus targets component each account for 50% of the individual target amount.

The remuneration system also provides for sustainability-related matters to be assessed for the purposes of the variable remuneration component. As part of the performance component of the bonus, at least 50% of the target amount is dependent on sustainability-related targets that have been defined as interdepartmental targets. These may include targets relating to resourceefficient and climate-friendly products, gender diversity, employee satisfaction and reputation. The Supervisory Board decides which indicators are used to assess performance against each criterion before the start of the financial year. Sustainabilityrelated indicators may be related to measures such as the reduction of CO2e emissions or further training. Performance criteria for the reporting year are environmental innovation performance
(indicators: proportion of all deliveries accounted for by electrified vehicles and proportion of all deliveries accounted for by all114

The BMW Group’s Internal Control System (ICS) covers, among other things, risks and controls relating to sustainability reporting. A general description of the ICS, including the aspects of the system related to sustainability reporting, is provided in » Internal
Control System.

emissions. Target achievement levels were determined after the end of the financial year. The climate-related targets for the performance component of the bonus were the performance criterion “environmental innovation performance” based on the indicator of the proportion of electrified and all-electric vehicles sold.
The targets for the long-term variable remuneration were tied to the reduction of carbon fleet emissions in the EU and global sales of all-electric vehicles (BEV).

Climate-related remuneration accounted for around 17-18% of the total remuneration granted and owed for the 2024 financial year.

Supervisory Board
The regulation governing remuneration for the Supervisory
Board is set out in § 16 of the Articles of Incorporation of
BMW AG, and specifies both the remuneration system to be used and the precise framework for calculating the remuneration due to the members of the Supervisory Board.

To ensure that the Supervisory Board monitors and advises the
Board of Management as an independent body, the remuneration of the Supervisory Board is structured as fixed remuneration plus an attendance fee and is not dependent on sustainability matters.

The remuneration of the Supervisory Board is determined by the
Annual General Meeting. The regulation currently in effect was confirmed by the Annual General Meeting on 12 May 2021 with a majority of 99.40% of the valid votes cast.

electric vehicles), reputation (indicator: Corporate Reputation Index), adaptability (indicators: Sustainability index and spending on employee training and development) and attractiveness as an employer (indicator: placement in rankings). Also taken into account are leadership performance (indicator: assessment of management performance) and the achievement of diversity targets (indicator: diversity targets), as well as preventive activities in ensuring compliance (indicator: actions taken to strengthen compliance). In terms of the share-based remuneration, the Supervisory Board adopts strategic focus targets each year. Some or all of these may be related to sustainability matters. Strategic focus targets for the reporting year were the reduction of carbon fleet emissions (EU) and sales of all-electric vehicles (BEV).

The remuneration system stipulates that at least 50% of the performance component of the bonus is dependent on sustainability-related matters. In relation to the total variable target remuneration, the proportion is around 12%. Depending on the specific annual targets for the individual departmental targets of the performance component of the bonus and for the strategic focus targets of the long-term variable remuneration component, the proportion of the variable target remuneration that is dependent on sustainability-related aspects can be as high as around 41% of the variable target remuneration.

The Supervisory Board is responsible for defining and reviewing the remuneration system of the Board of Management and for determining the individual remuneration of the members of the
Board of Management. It submits the remuneration system to the Annual General Meeting for approval in the event of significant changes, but at least every four years.

The Supervisory Board adopted the current remuneration system for the members of the Board of Management for financial years starting on or after 1 January 2021 and submitted it to the
Annual General Meeting for approval. The Annual General Meeting approved it on 12 May 2021 with a majority of 91.60% of the valid votes cast.

The Supervisory Board set climate-related targets for the variable remuneration of the Board of Management in the 2024 financial year. These were related to the reduction of GHG

Core elements of Due Diligence

Paragraphs in the sustainability statement

a) Embedding due diligence in governance, strategy

Description of material impacts, risks and opportunities and their link to strategy and business model

and business model

Principles of Governance by the Board of Management and Supervisory Board

Renumeration of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board

b) Engaging with affected stakeholders in all key steps

Procedure and methodological basis for the materiality assessment

of the due diligence

Principles of Governance by the Board of Management and Supervisory Board

c) Identifying and assessing adverse impacts

Procedure and methodological basis for the materiality assessment

Climate-related impacts

Impact, risks and opportunities in relation to environmental pollution

Water-related impacts, risks and opportunities

Description of material impacts, risks and opportunities and their link to strategy and business model

d) Taking actions to address those adverse impacts

Transition plan to achieve Net-Zero emissions by 2050

Climate change mitigation and adaptation as a key part of the corporate strategy

Measures for the responsible use of resources

Due Diligence in the supplier network

Responsible raw material management

Measures to protect biodiversity

Health management on a holistic basis

Customer data protection

e) Tracking the effectiveness of these efforts and

Path to achieving the CO2e reduction targets in 2030

communicating

Implemented actions and metrics for a holistic CO2e reduction

Preparing for Net Zero

Greenhouse gas emissions along the entire value chain

Use of an internal carbon price to assess vehicle projects

Due Diligence in the supplier network

Health management on a holistic basis

Prevention and care

Qualification

Dealing with the opportunities and risks associated with digitalisation

ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION

strategy

Implemented actions and metrics for a holistic CO2e reduction

0.8 million t

130.3 million t

99.5 g/km

Material impacts, risks and opportunities

Type

Stage of the value chain Policies

Targets

Specific actions

By emitting greenhouse gas emissions worldwide through upstream processes, sourcing and procuring raw material, products and services for the production, development and offering of its own products and services
(Scope 3, Upstream), the BMW Group contributes to climate change.

Negative
Impact

By emitting greenhouse gas emissions worldwide through downstream processes, mainly through use of sold products (Scope 3 downstream), BMW Group contributes to climate change.

Negative
Impact

The BMW Group emits greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) worldwide through processes in own operations
(Scope 1 and 2) and thus contribute to climate change.

Negative
Impact

Worldwide adaptation efforts by the BMW Group may require (disruptive) adjustments to the supply chain with negative effects on suppliers or local communities.

Negative
Impact

New or changing worldwide government regulation including carbon tax could require to adjust operations in the supply chain (increasing costs).

Risk

Reputational risks can arise if the BMW Group fails to adhere to stakeholders expectations regarding the reduction of CO2e emissions in the supply chain.

Risk

Ambitiously reducing CO2e emissions (Scope 3 downstream, e.g. by high efficient combustion engines and production of BEVs/PHEVs) can increase the market share in the customer segment of environmentally conscious buyers.

Opportunity

Catena-X provides standardized calculation methods and exchange formats for scope 3 upstream GHG emissions. This allows the BMW Group to report comparable emissions along the actual supply chain in order to better identify reduction potentials and to define targeted reduction measures with suppliers.

Opportunity

By offering battery electric, hydrogen and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles, the BMW Group enables the society to more environmentally friendly alternatives to traditional combustion engines (use of electricity from renewable sources implied).

Positive
Impact

Risk through increased competition in the field of electrified vehicles.

Risk

The currently very ambitious fleet legislation, which may become more stringent in some markets, can only be met with high additional marketing costs given weaker EV demand.

Risk

− BMW Group Climate Strategy

− Reduce Scope 1, Scope 2 and

Scope 3 emissions by at least 40 million tonnes CO2e in 2030 compared to 2019 levels

− Production and BMW locations: energy efficiency measures and increased use of renewable energies

− Supply chain: use of electricity from renewable sources* and secondary materials

− Logistics: expanded innovation and infrastructure management process for logistics actions

− Use phase: consistent electrification of the vehicle fleet and efficiency improvements for conventional drivetrains

− Continuous increase in the use of

charging electricity from CO2e-free generation

− Drivetrain strategy

− None

− Expansion of the drivetrain portfolio

− Increase in the proportion of battery electric vehicles (BEVs) and efficiency increases in the wide range of drivetrain technologies

Upstream material Own Operations material Downstream material

* See Glossary for a definition of electricity from renewable sources.

Climate resilience of the business model
The BMW Group actively works on improving the resilience of its business model with the aim of meeting the challenges posed by climate change. Through comprehensive consideration in Strategy and Planning, Development (products and production technologies), Purchasing (raw materials and global procurement markets), Production (locations and cooperations), Sales, Finance (profitability and liquidity) and Personnel (training), the
BMW Group is able to identify and assess the short-, mediumand long-term adjustments to its business model that are required in response to climate change while taking the necessary actions in all areas of its operations. To this end, the Company regularly reviews and updates its underlying climate scenarios and assumptions in order to make the effects its own business model visible. The BMW Group’s approach to assessing resilience extends to the entire value chain (own locations, supplier locations and sales locations) and is based on internal risk reporting. Corporate planning (twelve-year planning period) is updated annually and takes the risks and opportunities arising from climate change into account. The scenario analyses are performed to assess physical and transitory climate risks. Further details related to the climate risk analysis process are available in the Materiality Assessment.

The BMW Group takes steps to ensure the long-term viability of its business model by implementing operational measures, continuously updating its sustainability strategy, and following the overarching corporate strategy. Uncertainties in underlying assumptions (primarily regulatory requirements, customer expectations, technological developments, macroeconomic trends) are recorded on an ongoing basis and any adjustments are made promptly. The results of scenario analyses are incorporated into operational measures and the further development of the sustainability strategy as an integral part of the corporate strategy.
Sustainability targets are integrated into corporate planning on the basis of current premises and scenarios (including International Energy Agency scenarios for energy generation, CO2e emissions from upstream value creation). Starting with sales and

volume planning, all subsequent processes are interlinked in a coordinated procedure. Simulating the possible effects of this planning makes it possible for the BMW Group to take the necessary actions at an early stage. Assumptions about technologies, customer behaviour and demand trends are taken into account as planning premises. In particular, there are remaining uncertainties in the area of customer behavior and demand.
These areas are reviewed on a regular basis in order to reduce this level of uncertainty. The same applies to planned actions related to CO2e reduction, such as further efficiency improvements or the progressive electrification of the product portfolio. These are also included as planning premises. Global market sales forecasts and the planned product and drive portfolio are taken into account as key factors. This means that the resilience analysis assesses the entire planning period based on the latest assumptions and forecasts as part of the annual planning process.
Resulting actions are identified and taken into account in the financial planning process. Based on these assumptions, the
BMW Group's business model is resilient to the impacts and adjustments resulting from climate change and climate change adaptation.

Climate change mitigation and adaptation as key parts of the corporate strategy
The BMW Group regards its balance of economic, ecological and social interests as the basis for its economic success. The Company has therefore anchored the material impacts, risks and opportunities related to climate change mitigation and adaptation in its corporate strategy Cornerstones of the Strategy. The strategic fields of action of electrification, digitalisation and sustainability/ circular economy are geared towards achieving the sustainability targets. As a global Company, the BMW Group is also in continuous dialogue with a large number of external stakeholders in
Germany and abroad regarding aspects of climate change. This includes affected communities and indigenous peoples. Stakeholder feedback is taken into account and contributes to the continuous development of the corporate strategy Stakeholder
Engagement, Social and Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Network.

The BMW Group’s Strategy, including topic-specific strategies such as the sustainability strategy, is confirmed by the Board of
Management. The CO2e strategy draws on the Greenhouse Gas
Protocol, science-based targets and implementation pathways, as well as all relevant regulatory changes. Progress towards achieving these targets is reviewed on a regular basis. All necessary actions are discussed in the relevant committees and by the
Board of Management. These bodies also reach decisions on the relevance and effectiveness of the actions. Specific decisions, such as overarching targets for reducing CO2e emissions and circular economy initiatives, are addressed in topic-specific meetings of the Board of Management. Strategic aspects are implemented in the respective departments such as Purchase, Development, Production, HR and Sales on the basis of defined target processes. In line with established target-setting processes and target achievement monitoring systems, targets are broken down within the organisation to the individual implementation levels. The targets are further detailed as needed with specific requirements (for example within vehicle projects and down to the component level).

Taking a coordinated approach and integrating all external and internal requirements enables the BMW Group to develop, implement and continuously update detailed guidelines and instructions based on the strategies. This approach integrates climate change mitigation and adaptation as well as energy use and efficiency. This extends from development guidelines (such as Design for Circularity) through to process specifications for procurement and CO2e reduction requirements for the supplier network*. Internal premises are established on the basis of corresponding requirements with the aim of implementing the strategic targets.

* The BMW Group includes measures that reduce carbon emissions, such as the use of electricity from renewable sources, the use of secondary raw materials, new manufacturing processes for raw materials, and product and material innovations such as biomaterials. Accordingly, compensation measures are not included.

Company-wide requirements related to climate change adaptation are continuously developed and implemented including with the help of infrastructure planning guidelines. One example is the planning premise that new sites will be operated without the use of fossil fuels, which has been approved by the Board of Management. The implementation process is defined on the basis of relevant frameworks and guidelines, such as the Greenhouse
Gas Protocol and science-based approaches for reducing CO2e emissions. The long-term corporate planning workflow was expanded in the 2024 reporting year to include the assessment and simulation of the impact on the BMW Group's absolute CO2e emissions. This was done to make the interactions between volume, drivetrain mix, and supply chain more transparent within planning processes, and is achieved by integrating the impact on
CO2e emissions directly into the scenarios used for volume and financial planning.

In addition to the CO2e strategy, the BMW Group analyses the current and future regulatory requirements for emissions and drivetrain technologies as part of its long-term corporate planning. This includes detailed strategic market and drivetrain forecasts that are performed as part of volume planning. These forecasts monitor and anticipate fleet carbon emissions limits, pollutants (including brake/tyre abrasion), quotas for electrified vehicles, and bans on registration of individual drivetrain technologies. As part of the process for updating the BMW Group’s longterm corporate planning, vehicle volume plans, and the drivetrain mix of the BMW Group portfolio are updated on an annual and ongoing basis. The aim is to continue reducing emissions during the use phase of vehicles while also meeting changing market requirements. The consistent enhancement of the drivetrain portfolio therefore remains one of the BMW Group’s main levers for reducing carbon emissions in the use phase. Cornerstones of the Strategy

Additionally to regulatory requirements, the BMW Group also factors regional and market-specific conditions into its strategic

planning. This includes, in particular, the availability and expansion of the charging infrastructure for electrified vehicles, the proportion of renewable energies in the energy mix and the availability of alternative low-carbon fuels. The analyses also include customer acceptance of different drivetrain options in different markets. Total-cost-of-ownership considerations, such as purchase incentives for electrified vehicles, vehicle taxation or the cost of the energy used to power a vehicle have a significant impact on customer acceptance. The findings are carefully assessed and incorporated into the process of designing the optimum drivetrain mix for the respective market.

The BMW Group fulfils the regulatory requirements for fleet carbon emissions in the main sales markets of the EU, USA and
China while taking all of the relevant regulatory flexibilities into account, such as to the purchase of carbon credits. If regulatory carbon requirements change, the Company will determine whether the current planning needs to be adjusted as part of the annual strategic drivetrain forecast or whether additional action needs to be taken. This approach ensures that the regulatory requirements are met.

Transition plan to achieve Net Zero emissions by 2050
The BMW Group aims to achieve net zero CO2e emissions across the entire value chain by latest 2050. This means that the unavoidable CO2e emissions remaining after the reduction measures will be equivalent to a maximum of 10% of the absolute emissions in the base year 2019. The Scope 3 emissions will account for around 99% of the remaining total emissions. The remaining
1% of the emissions are Scope 1 and 2 emissions. Preparing for
Net Zero. This methodology is based on recognised definitions and specifications, including the ESRS. The transition plan for climate change mitigation which will be used to achieve net zero consists initially of the CO2e reduction targets for 2030, which also relate to the base year 2019. These near-term targets
(NTT) for the target year 2030 provide the guiding framework used to define the actions needed. These targets are in line with

the climate targets set out in the Paris Agreement to limit global warming.1 From the 2024 reporting year onwards, the CO2e targets will be converted from relative values to absolute values. By deriving guidelines for 2035, the time horizon of the target corridor will be extended.

Science-based, cross-sectoral methods were used for each scope to derive CO2e reduction targets for 2030 in line with the approach of the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). Targets were assessed based on the source of the emissions according to the relevant categories of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Percentage-based annual CO2e reduction targets relative to the base year 2019 were used. This is a representative base year that provides reliable and comparable values with regard to framework conditions such as sales volumes, emissions in each scope, and available technologies. By taking a systematic approach, the BMW Group ensures that the climate targets for
2030 have been developed on the basis of solid data and have taken all relevant factors into consideration. The CO2e targets are integrated into the BMW Group's steering system.

The Company has derived a 1.5°C-aligned pathway for Scope 1 and 22 emissions and integrated it in the corporate strategy. The
BMW Group has defined a combined target for its Scope 3 emissions (including Purchased goods and services, Logistics, and the Use phase) in the Automotive segment due to the close interdependencies between the supply chain and use phase. The targets are based on the standards of a science-based Well-Below-Two-Degree approach in accordance with SBTi. The
BMW Group uses a holistic approach for this purpose that considers the CO2e emissions of vehicles over their entire life cycle.

2030, the biogenic share of emissions is included in the figure for the category Company Vehicles
(Scope 1), while the biogenic share of the average electricity mix supplied to the BMW Group is included in the Electricity/Heating/Cooling Procurement for BMW Group Locations category.
Emissions under Scope 2 are included in the target using the market-based calculation.

CO2e steering logic

Corporate strategy

Consistency with the objectives of the Paris Agreement

Monitoring und Reporting–
Governance
(Group reporting, publications)

CO2e

Steering logic

Targets for product projects and anchoring in the periodic targets
(t CO2/vehicle) of the Purchasing, Development, and Production departments

Target guidance and target control
(avoidance of CO2e emissions)

Measures to meet targets and implementation in the technology clusters for all scopes

At the time of target derivation for Scope 3 target, the target value for 2030 fully meets the requirements of the SBTi Well Below Two Degrees pathway, but is approximately 30% higher than these theoretical targets with reference to an ideal 1.5°C pathway according to the requirements and methodology of independent organisations. As part of the development of corridors up to 2035, the demand for an increasing acceleration of decarbonization is being increasingly taken into account.

To achieve the CO2e targets, specific decarbonisation levers are identified, assessed, approved and implemented specifically for each scope.

The expected CO2e emissions from the corporate planning are compared with the scope-specific targets. Measures are derived from this process to ensure that the Company’s CO2e targets are achieved by 2030 by means of annual target paths. A structured process – in which the planned emissions are continuously compared with the targets and appropriate measures are defined – makes a significant contribution to the Company meeting its climate targets as planned.

These transitional measures are an integral part of the climate strategy, which is an integral part of the BMW Group Strategy.
The planned product and infrastructure measures will provide a short-term outlook for the avoided or reduced CO2e emissions over a period of six years. The expected Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions (Purchased goods and services, Logistics, Use phase in each case for the Automotive segment) are updated annually on the basis of volume and sales plans and long-term corporate planning. Sustainability matters of relevance to the product portfolio, such as the electrification strategy and the integration of these matters into the continuous strategic process, are presented annually as part of corporate planning, which is approved by the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. The ongoing implementation of these processes ensures that the corporate strategy and emissions reduction targets are harmonised and can be implemented.

The BMW Group's long-term corporate planning is based on the
Company’s target system. In this way, the targets set out in the planning are regularly compared with the BMW Group’s strategic targets. Decisions related to the implementation of sustainability targets – particularly in connection with sales planning and the product portfolio – are confirmed in specific draft proposals or by the decision making bodies of the BMW Group.

The BMW Group is drawing up a CapEx plan for capital expenditure and operating expenditure that expands Taxonomy-aligned economic activities or allows Taxonomy-eligible economic activities to become taxonomy-aligned. This plan is being drawn up on the basis of the long-term planning of the BMW Group.
CO2e targets is derived from this CapEx plan. Specific measures are also financed, such as the development of technologies that contribute directly to the implementation of the transition plan.1

The progress of the implementation plan, based on the measures for each scope, is reflected in the emissions reductions achieved and forms the basis for its further development.

Path to achieving the CO2e reduction targets in 2030
The BMW Group is fully committed to the Paris Agreement and contributes to decarbonisation efforts by pursuing its own ambitious targets. To achieve this, the BMW Group promotes the reduction of CO2e emissions throughout the whole life cycle of its products as well as the principles of the circular economy with a verifiable track record of continuous improvement – from the supply chain to production, the use phase and the recycling of its products.

The relative targets introduced in 2021 (expressed as reduction per vehicle) for Scope 1 and 2 (BMW Group locations) and Scope
3 (Purchased goods and services, Logistics, Use phase in each case for the Automotive segment) will be replaced with absolute values measured in tonnes CO2e from reporting year 2024 onwards. The BMW Group’s overall target claim remains unchanged with this adaptation and take account of growth forecasts and interaction between the scopes. No future developin sales volumes or new ments, (for example changes

technologies) were assumed as premises as part of the target setting process.

The BMW Group aims to reduce its CO2e emissions by at least
40 million tonnes CO2e compared to the 2019 base year by
2030 - from 150.1 million tonnes CO2e to 108.6 million tonnes
CO2e. The targets are based on scientific, cross-sector methods aligned with the approach of the SBTi. The BMW Group is committed to proceeding exclusively according to scientifically recognised methods. For this reason, the BMW Group joined the SBTi and validated its relative decarbonisation targets in 2020. Ongoing revisions to the SBTi guidelines, which are expected to continue until at least the end of 2025, and interim requirements valid until then (including the mandated commitment to phase out combustion engine technology by 2035) mean that it is currently preventing the validation of the absolute targets.

The BMW Group actively incorporated stakeholder expectations into the methodology used for its reduction pathways when defining targets for a 1.5°C-aligned CO₂e reduction pathway for
Scope 1 and 2 emissions, as well as the Well-Below-Two-Degrees approach for Scope 3 emissions in the Automotive segment (covering Purchased goods and services, Logistics, and the
Use phase). Additionally, the fleet CO2 regulations in the respective markets are applicable during the use phase.

Scope 3 categories are considered for both current reporting and target-setting purposes based on the requirements of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. In addition to the absolute volume of emissions and the proportion of total emissions, the most important criterion being the extent to which the BMW Group is able to influence the emissions directly.

Based on this approach, the categories Purchased goods and services, Upstream transportation and distribution (Logistics), and Use of sold products (Use Phase) are both reported and factored into the target-setting process for the Automotive segment.
These target-relevant categories account for more than 95% of all reported Scope 3 emissions. Additional reported categories
(Business travelling and Employee commuting) are excluded from the target Scope because the volumes in question are

relatively small (Business travelling and employee commuting) or because of the lack of direct influence by the BMW Group
(End-of-Life treatment of sold products [Disposal]).

An absolute target of 0.635 million tonnes of CO2e by 2030 has been set for direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) emissions.2
This is equivalent to a 46.3% reduction in emissions compared to the base year 2019 (1.182 million tonnes of CO2e). The Scope
2 target derivation is based on the market-based method. This factors in the actual emissions of the electricity used instead of the values of regional electricity mixes. Approximately three quarters of the emissions are allocated to Scope 1 and approximately one quarter to Scope 2.

An absolute target of 108 million tonnes of CO2e for 2030 was defined for Scope 3 emissions in the Automotive segment, based on Purchased goods and services, Logistics and the Use phase.
This is equivalent to a 27.5% reduction in emissions compared to the base year 2019 (148.9 million tonnes of CO2e).

Energy efficiency measures and the use of renewable energy in particular should contribute to achieving the targets in the own production of the BMW Group. Fossil fuels are increasingly being replaced by alternative technologies, particularly site-specific geothermal energy, renewable district heating and power-to-heat systems. At the new plant in Debrecen, Hungary, all paint line processes are powered by electricity instead of natural gas.

quantified for confidentiality reasons.

2030, the biogenic share of emissions is included in the figure for the category Company Vehicles
(Scope 1), while the biogenic share of the average electricity mix supplied to the BMW Group is included in the Electricity/Heating/Cooling Procurement for BMW Group Locations category.
Emissions under Scope 2 are included in the target using the market-based calculation.

This significantly reduces CO2e emissions, even if it increases electricity consumption. The plant in Debrecen sources all of its production-related electricity needs from electricity from renewable sources. These decarbonisation levers are helping the
BMW Group to achieve its overall targets in a manner which is proportionate to the total volume of emissions allocated to each scope.

lever for CO2e-reducing
In the supply chain, the biggest measures is the use of electricity from renewable sources, while the second biggest lever is the use of secondary materials and raw materials from CO2e-reduced production processes (for example steel and aluminium). Expanded innovation and infrastructure management process for logistics measures are reducing emissions related to logistics. During the use phase, the biggest lever is the electrification of the product portfolio across all brands. In addition, other drive technologies such as hydrogen are being further developed and will be gradually integrated into the product range. The BMW Group is also implementing efficiency improvements for conventional drivetrains and continuously increasing the use of electricity from CO2e-free sources for vehicle charging.

The BMW Group expects the largest contribution to achieving the
2030 CO2e emissions reduction target – approximately 65% in absolute terms – to come from the electrification of the vehicle fleet (automobiles), which is allocated to the Scope 3 category
Use phase. The majority of the remaining reductions will be achieved by implementing measures in the supply chain and logistics.

The LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) comparison of current all-electric vehicles shows improvements that have already been realised. The next generation of battery technology in the NEUE
KLASSE vehicles is expected to reduce emissions in the supply chain for the battery cell approximately by another third. By using electricity from renewable sources in selected process steps, CO2e emissions can be reduced further over the entire life cycle.
Compared to comparable vehicle concepts with an internal combustion engine, Scope 3 CO2e emissions can be reduced by up to three quarters.

Regardless of the drivetrain technology, the decarbonisation of the supply chain in particular makes significant contributions to achieving the target. The continuously growing proportion of electric vehicles in the BMW Group’s range may cause emissions in the supply chain to increase in the short to medium term. The main reason for this is the higher product carbon footprint (PCF) of the high-voltage battery compared to conventional drivetrain concepts. In the supply chain and in the component manufacturing process, the BMW Group therefore relies on electricity from renewable sources at selected stages of the process, in addition to using recycled materials and technical measures that have been developed to limit the increase in CO2e in the supply chain.
High reduction contributions result from agreements with raw material suppliers for aluminium and precious metals as well as from suppliers of high-voltage battery cells. These measures are already being implemented with the current battery generation.
With the use of upcoming battery generations, these effects are to be further expanded. For example, by using materials with
CO2e-reduced manufacturing processes or higher proportions of recyclates, CO2e emissions can be reduced by up to 80% for aluminium and up to 70% for steel. This includes the use of direct reduction processes in steel production. For other material groups such as glass and plastics, the use of electricity from renewable sources has a particularly beneficial effect on the CO2e footprint of the supply chain.

The BMW Group takes into account the trends in key customer segments, drivetrain technologies, and forecasts for the decarbonisation of supply chains and energy generation when operationalising emission targets across all three scopes. CO2e credits
(certificates) are not factored in when these targets are set and monitored - Only actual reduction measures are counted.

The target achievement is subject to uncertainties, some of which cannot partially or cannot be completely influenced by the
BMW Group. For example, future deliveries of battery electric vehicles (BEV) as a proportion of total sales may not be in line with current assumptions. The availability of appropriate infrastructure and incentives to purchase BEVs will have an impact on demand. It became clear in the reporting year that the BEV market remains fragmented worldwide. Different markets are developing at different speeds. External factors such as the removal of

incentives are having a significant impact. The flexibility of the
BMW Group’s production network puts it in a position to react effectively to these developments. Higher overall sales volumes or a higher proportion of combustion-engine vehicles would make additional supply chain decarbonisation measures necessary in order to achieve the CO2e targets. Geopolitical risks can also have a significant impact on the BMW Group’s ability to achieve climate targets.

External market-specific developments in the supply chain may also lead to the decarbonisation of energy-intensive upstream stages in particular taking a different course than planned. Not all factors that impact decarbonisation can be directly influenced, particularly in the production of CO2e-intensive raw materials such as steel and aluminium and the subsequent value creation stages in the supply chain. Furthermore, the ambitious forecasts of the International Energy Agency (IEA) – which are used to calculate emissions in the use phase of electrified vehicles – may be missed if, for example, the use of renewable energy does not progress quickly enough. In contrast, additional actions, such as the provision of CO2e-free charging for customers, may result in an improvement in downstream Scope 3 emissions (Use phase). Finally, changes in legally prescribed measurement and assessment procedures may have an impact on the BMW Group's targets and their achievement.

Implemented actions and metrics for a holistic CO2e reduction
The overarching CO2e targets for all scopes are the basis for the specific actions that are an integral part of the corporate, product and topic-specific strategies (including Purchasing, Development, Production and Sales). Specific targets and implementation steps are derived from the overarching goals of the Company.

The actions taken to reduce emissions are identified, assessed, approved and implemented individually for each scope. Particularly as regards the own locations (Scope 1 and 2), these actions involve the gradual substitution of fossil fuels and making continuous increase in energy efficiency to reduce energy requirements. To this end, emissions related to production are primarily reduced through energy efficiency actions and the use of

renewable energies to substitute fossil fuels. Energy Efficiency and renewable Energy

In the area of own emissions (Scope 1 and 2), a reduction of around 38,000 t CO2e was achieved compared to the previous year as a result of new measures implemented in the reporting year. The reduction from the procurement of biomethane at the
Spartanburg plant (USA) and from the conversion from fossil fuel district heating to district heating from wood chips at the plant in
Steyr (Austria) have made a significant contribution to this.

Scope 3 emissions in the categories Purchased goods and services, Logistics and Use phase account for the largest share of the BMW Group’s total CO2e emissions. As a result, the Company’s CO2e reduction measures are focused on these areas in particular.

The BMW Group has established the reduction of CO2e emissions in the supply chain as a key criterion when awarding contracts to suppliers. Since 2021, the requirement to use electricity from renewable sources has applied to both our direct (tier 1) suppliers and to energy-intensive pre-production (n-tier) processes involved in the production of CO2e-intensive components and materials. Other measures include the use of secondary materials. This represents an important contribution to the decarbonisation of the supply chain on the part of the Company. The
BMW Group reviews the effectiveness of the CO2-reducing measures in its series production annually in cooperation with a specialised external service provider. 71 suppliers were assessed in this regard in 2024. In the reporting year, verified and implemented actions reduced supply chain emissions by around
2.8 million t CO2e. It is expected that it will be possible to reduce
CO2e emissions again in subsequent years based on measures in the supply chain. In 2024, the BMW Group started to review the implementation concepts of new suppliers with contracts that stipulate the use of electricity from renewable sources prior to series production.

Moreover the Supply Chain Programme of the NGO CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) is used to assess the performance of the supply chain in terms of reducing CO2e emissions. Participating suppliers are provided support with defining
CO2e reduction targets, integrating them into their business processes and reporting on the progress made on a regular basis.
Associated with this is a rating from which the BMW Group derives measures for supplier development and empowerment. In
2024, 271 suppliers took part in the rating. This corresponds to
79% of the BMW Group’s direct production-related purchasing volume.

The BMW Group is also starting to use nature-based materials in the production of its vehicles to reduce CO2e emissions related to components. This includes using renewable plant-based raw materials for certain components, such as panelling elements in vehicle interiors. In future, the BMW Group intends to use renewable raw materials for the production of seat covers or interior panelling elements.

The BMW Group is making a significant contribution to further reducing CO2e emissions in the use phase by electrifying the entire product portfolio across all automobile brands. The Group is also developing established drivetrain technologies with the aim of achieving greater efficiency (EfficientDynamics technologies) and adding new technologies to the drivetrain mix, for example hydrogen drive technology. The increased use of electricity from renewable sources for charging electrified vehicles is another area where the BMW Group has the potential to ramp up its decarbonisation performance. The BMW Group is actively involved in the expansion of the charging infrastructure and is committed to supporting this goal worldwide. The BMW Group also fosters the development and use of sustainable fuels. Innovations and
Product Technologies

The BMW Group has been pursuing the aim of continuing emissions-reduced transportation within its global production and

retail network since 2015. About half of the vehicles produced by the BMW Group leave its plants by rail. Electricity from renewable sources is used for some of the rail transport involved in our logistics within Germany. In addition to second-generation biofuels
(for example HVO 100, produced from residual and waste materials), all-electric heavy commercial vehicles have been increasingly deployed for transporting goods at the Group’s main plant in Munich since 2023. Bio LNG (bio liquefied natural gas) has also been used on the road in a number of series transport processes in Germany and the UK. Moreover, the BMW Group has been involved in the “H2Haul” research project since 2022 in addition to the “HyCET” research project, in order to gain early experience in the use of hydrogen trucks.

The implementation and financing of actions and the measurement of target achievement are all part of long-term corporate planning. Taking measures into account in the financial planning process ensures that adequate funding is available to implement them in the relevant periods.

The implementation of these CO2e reduction measures is initially geared towards the year 2030. However, the measures extend well beyond 2030 in many areas, such as the adaptation of the product portfolio or making it possible to operate new sites without the use of fossil fuels. This also supports our aim to achieve
Net Zero across the entire value chain by 2050 at the latest.

Greenhouse gas emissions along the entire value chain
Absolute CO2e emissions are presented for the reporting year and are disclosed per scope and per relevant category
CO2e footprint. Emissions are presented and disclosed in line with the structure and requirements of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and the relevant emission factors for each scope and category.
These are reviewed as part of the annual data gathering process and updated if necessary.

In 2024, the BMW Group’s CO2e emissions, excluding biogenic
CO2 emissions, totalled 836,963 t CO2e in Scope 1 and 2 and
130,297,238 t CO2e in Scope 3.

These absolute CO2e emissions are set in relation to net sales revenue in accordance with the ESRS requirements. For the reporting year 2024, this so called Greenhouse gas intensity is 933 t
CO2e/€ million according to the market-based method and 941 t
CO2e/€ million according to the location-based method. The
BMW Group expects that the targets that have been set will reduce this figure over the next few years. In the 2024 reporting year, the relative reporting metrics for CO2e emissions from
BMW Group locations (Scope 1 and 2) are 0.27 t CO2e per vehicle produced,1 and 13.55 t CO2e per vehicle produced for CO2e emissions from the supply chain.1

With regard to Scope 3 emissions, the assessment criteria of the
Greenhouse Gas Protocol were used to determine the relevant categories. The decision of which categories to disclose was made on the basis of volumes and proportion, measurability, the ability of the BMW Group to influence the emissions volumes, and the degree of risk. Materiality of the various Scope 3 categories

Emissions in Scope 3 categories 2 (Capital goods), 3 (Fuel and energy-related activities), 5 (Waste generated in operations), 8
(Upstream leased assets), 10 (Processing of sold products), 13
(Downstream leased assets) and 15 (Investments) are not reported for reasons of materiality, as they account for around 3% of total emissions and are not significant. The BMW Group is therefore focusing on the emissions that are considered relevant in terms of the absolute volumes involved (category 1, Purchased goods and services, categories 4 and 9, Logistics, and category
11, Use of sold products) and those that can be directly or indirectly influenced by the BMW Group Materiality of the various
Scope 3 categories. The significant categories included in the report cover 97% of the BMW Group’s total Scope 3 emissions.

The BMW Group's greenhouse gas emissions are calculated using recognised data sources and methods. These include the specialised software LCA for Experts, which is used to analyse the value chain and calculate the Global Warming Potential
(GWP) values of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
(IPCC). Until reliable primary data is available, for example based on emission measurements performed in the supply chain by the suppliers themselves, values from databases are used instead of primary data (0%). These values are adjusted in certain cases using more precise secondary data, provided that measures to reduce the CO2e emissions of relevant suppliers are verifiable.

CO2e emissions of the BMW Group2

in t

It is currently not possible to compare this data across companies. The BMW Group has a long-term objective of developing a
CO2e accounting system based on real data. The first steps have already been taken with the Catena-X project. Information about the system boundaries (upstream and downstream value chain), information on evaluation using market- and location-based methods and the data gathering methods can be found in the
CO2e footprint and is explained in the glossary.

The metrics for the Motorcycles segment were included in the reporting metrics for Scope 3 supply chain (upstream) and the use phase (downstream) for the first time in the 2024 financial year.
These values were initially collected as an extrapolation in line with the processes for the Automotive segment.

CO2e emissions per vehicle produced (automotive)1

Scope 1

Scope 2

Scope 3
Upstream

Scope 3
Downstream

in t

BMW Group locations

Supply Chain

Developing generally recognised standards for the automotive industry, and ideally across industries, is a crucial step in ensuring that emissions data can be compared properly across companies.

method, the Scope 2 emissions amount to 1,304,971 t CO2e. Additional information is available in Glossary and Explanation of Key Figures.

From the 2025 financial year onwards, the BMW Group’s sustainability reporting will be expanded to include Scope 3 category
14 (Franchise). This category comprises the global retail network for the BMW and MINI brands (excluding own branches). The global retail network of the BMW Group’s Automotive segment currently comprises around 4,800 sales locations. As the retail network is considered part of the downstream value chain, the associated activities are also included in the BMW Group's Scope
3 emissions. In tandem with the data gathering process, the preparation ofCO2e targets for the global retail network and the development of a pathway for achieving these targets began in
2024. The BMW Group plans to prepare measures by the end of
2025 that align the sales organisation's CO2e targets with the
BMW Group’s overarching targets.

This ensures that emissions from significant emission sources along the entire value chain, including the sales organisation, are fully documented and reduced in a targeted manner from 2025 onwards.

In addition to absolute CO2e emissions, the BMW Group also assesses its fleet carbon emissions limits in the use phase. Despite a slowdown in the upwards sales trend for electrified vehicles in the 2024 reporting year, the BMW Group was able to further reduce its fleet carbon emissions in the main sales markets of the
EU, USA, and China by increasing the BEV share.

Within the EU1, average fleet carbon emissions, taking into account regulatory requirements2 and in accordance with WLTP, were 99.5 g CO2/km2. This is equivalent to reducing the
CO2 emissions of the new vehicle fleet EU by a further 2.6 g compared to the previous year (2023: 102.1 g CO2/km). In the reporting year, the BMW Group remained significantly below the legal applicable limit of approximately 130.1 g CO2/km by 30.6 g
CO2/km. This continues the trend seen in recent decades, driven by the electrification of the vehicle fleet and the fleet-wide deployment of innovative technologies EfficientDynamics technologies.

In the US market, the BMW Group once again met the regulatory
GHG fleet consumption requirements during the reporting year.
This was achieved using self-generated credits as well as credits carried over from previous years. The BMW Group did not purchase any credits from other manufacturers for the reporting year. The requirements were therefore met without exception by using self-generated, existing credits. The volume-weighted
CO2 fleet carbon emissions (US market)3 averaged 114.6 g CO2/km2
(model year 2023: 126.5 g CO2/km). The increasing proportion of electric vehicles had a particularly significant effect in terms of reducing emissions.

The volume-weighted CO2 fleet carbon emissions in China were
141.9 g CO2/km2 according to the WLTC test cycle (2023:
146.4 g CO2/km WLTC). The BMW Group has also met the applicable regulatory CAFC fleet consumption requirements in that market.

The BMW Group’s global fleet carbon emissions in the reporting year averaged 185.0 g CO2e/km2 (2023: 191.8 g CO2e/km4). These metrics correspond to a decrease of 18.4% compared to the base year 2019 (2019: 226.8 g CO2e/km4). As in previous years, when calculating the emissions metrics, the BMW Group takes into account volume-weighted fleet carbon emissions (including upstream emissions for fuel and electric charging) in the EU, the
USA, and China and standardises them in accordance with the
WLTP. With a share of more than 80% of BMW Group deliveries, these three core markets and regions form a reliable basis for calculating global average fleet carbon emissions.

The BMW Group is involved in associations and also participates independently in political debates on future requirements related to carbon legislation in individual markets. The Company supports the development of harmonised national and international regulations. Establishing comparable requirements creates a reliable and predictable framework which can make an important contribution to effectively countering the effects of climate change. We provide information on the BMW Group’s most important climate policy positions and activities in our Climate
Engagement Report.

Use of an internal carbon price to assess vehicle projects
An internal carbon price is used as a shadow price in the development phase of vehicle projects (automobiles) to assess the measures taken to reduce carbon emissions in the use phase.

This carbon price was determined on the basis of fleet regulations in the EU. These regulations stipulate a penalty of 95 € per gram of CO2 for each unit sold if the target is not met. The value is converted over an assumed mileage of 200,000 km to a price of 475 € per tonne of CO2. Vehicle projects are managed directly based on impacts in g CO2/km while drawing on expected vehicle emissions and their impact on the BMW Group fleet.

The penalties that may be imposed are appropriate when assessing measures as they directly represent the costs that would be incurred if the targets were not met. The costs of carbon measures can therefore be directly compared to potential penalty payments and used as a basis for assessing emissions from the use phase. The BMW Group’s internal carbon price is applied to 100% of Scope 3 CO2e emissions from the use phase of the automobile sector. In the 2024 reporting year, this price was applied to 90,667,226 t CO2e. This is equivalent to 69.1% of the total CO2e emissions of the BMW Group.

provided for this purpose, Sphera uses the new IEA Methane Tracker. This determined that methane flaring was significantly more frequent during crude oil production than in previous years.
Due to the significant influence that this effect has on the aforementioned indicator, the previous years were re-baselined back to 2019. Excluding this effect, the previous year's value was
185.4 g CO2e/km and the value in 2019 was 218.5 g CO2e/km.

In the supply chain, however, the actions taken to achieve targets for each material group are managed based on the required level of carbon reduction and the necessary avoidance costs. The process is carried out annually with the involvement of the Purchasing and Supplier Network, Development and Finance departments. Similarly, the actions taken to achieve Scope 1 and 2 targets are managed based on the specific avoidance costs. A continuous coordination process ensures that requirements arising from changing conditions are reliably taken into account and that mitigation measures in the supply chain are optimised.

Preparing for Net Zero
The BMW Group intends to achieve Net Zero by 2050, which means reducing CO2e emissions across all scopes within the value chain by at least 90% compared to the base year. To achieve this target at this point in time, the BMW Group focuses within the preparation of Net Zero on the decarbonization of its value chain. All emissions that cannot be technically reduced further at the point of Net Zero (maximum 10% of total base year
CO2e emissions) must be neutralised from that point onwards using permanent carbon sinks.

Internal carbon prices are not used for financial reporting purposes. They are not used when assessing the duration of use and residual value of assets, assessing the possible impairment of assets or measuring the fair value of assets acquired through corporate takeovers. However, the BMW Group’s corporate planning does incorporate volume- and price-related assumptions for emission allowances under the EU Emissions Trading
System (ETS). These premises are also factored into the impairment testing process for assets in the Automotive segment.

The BMW Group has been supporting the development of new permanent CO2e sequestration methods since 2024 to drive the development of these carbon sinks. These efforts have included purchasing certificates from biochar projects.

CO2e certificates cancelled in the reporting year*

Total (in t CO2e)

Share from removal projects (in %)

Share from reduction projects (in %)

Sink-type biochar (in %)

Recognised quality standards CSI/C-Sink (in %)

Share of projects within the EU (in %)

Share of projects with corresponding adjustments (in %)

CO2e certificates planned to be cancelled in the future (in t CO2e)

Until and including reporting year 2026

* Additional information is available in Glossary and Explanation of Key Figures.

The BMW Group is financing the permanent storage of initial volumes equivalent to 25,000 t of CO2e in cooperation with partners including Atmosfair and Firstclimate. By this means, it is intended to foster the scaling of promising Carbon Dioxide Removal (CDR) technologies at an early stage in order to also prepare for the
BMW Group’s sub-target of neutralising a maximum 10% of its base year CO2e emissions at the point of Net Zero by 2050 at the latest.

The BMW Group supports these projects voluntarily, which means their yields are not counted towards the Group's CO2e targets. The projects are certified by independent institutions in line with international standards (for example CSI/EBC C-Sink) and have to meet a set of strict quality criteria as for instance permanence and additionality of the CO2e storage effects.

consumption of production processes. The purpose of these groups is to minimise impacts on the environment accordingly.

The BMW Group is committed to protecting people and the environment by acting responsibly beyond the confines of its plants.
It is therefore expanding its influence throughout the value chain by establishing partnerships and dialogue formats with policymakers, business partners and external partners such as customers, suppliers, contractual partners and non-governmental organisations (NGOs). As a global company, the BMW Group is in continuous dialogue with a large number of external stakeholders in Germany and abroad regarding environmental matters. These include affected communities and indigenous people.
Supplier Network

We inform the public about our environmental objectives and measures in a variety of ways. We also use events, conferences, presentations and plant tours to engage in dialogue with different target groups. Publications, brochures and environmental statements from the individual plants, the BMW Group Report and the websites of the BMW Group and its plants provide additional transparency about our activities.

is an

Protecting the environment important pillar of the
BMW Group’s sustainability strategy. The BMW Group takes action to protect the environment at every stage of the vehicle life cycle, from the supply chain through to production and the end of the use phase. The BMW Group incorporates ecological effects into its planning and activities at an early stage and assesses environmental impacts, risks and opportunities.

Within the BMW Group’s global production network, energy and resource efficiency as well as the control of resource consumption have been integral parts in the environmental management system for decades. Alongside CO2e emissions, the other indicators are energy and potable water consumption, waste for disposal, and solvent emissions. Biodiversity is also analysed for each site individually.

The environmental policy addresses the impacts, risks and opportunities identified as material at the properties of the
BMW Group in the areas of water, energy and climate change take are in compliance with legislation, regulations and standards. A certified environmental management system in accordance with ISO 14001 has been implemented at all BMW Group production sites. Moreover, all the BMW Group’s German plants are certified under the EMAS environmental management system. The requirements of these regulations are specified in binding specifications such as the BMW Group working instructions and guidelines, the BMW Group Management Manual (for quality, environmental protection, occupational safety, ergonomics, health management and corporate security including information protection), in process descriptions and procedural instructions, as well as in work orders and standard operating procedures.
The monitoring process of the environmental policy is based on annual audits which are required in order to meet the aforementioned regulations.

By providing information and training, we promote and develop a sense of responsibility for the environment among our employees. The BMW Group’s environmental policy requires and facilitates environmentally friendly conduct throughout the entire organisation. This helps our workforce to play their part in improving the environmental performance of the BMW Group. Managers act as role models and the BMW Group provides targeted training and further education in this area. Proposals and ideas for improving operational processes and improving our environmental performance are assessed internally in the “cre8” idea management programme.

The Board of Management is responsible for the implementation of the environmental policy. Managers bear particular responsibility for implementing and living out the environmental and energy policy and motivating their employees accordingly. Environmental protection training is mandatory for managers. The delegation chain assigns operator responsibility to site management.
Each facility, each building and each area is allocated to a responsible operator who is responsible for the products, processes, facilities and technical systems in their area. Environmental protection units support and advise operators and employees at each site. These units consist of the environmental management officers and the officers for waste, water protection and immission control. These individuals are responsible for making production processes as environmentally friendly as possible in line with the environmental objectives. The BMW Group uses a number of tools to help operators fulfil their responsibilities, including operator inspections, regular meetings and an emergency communication system.

At company level, the department for Strategy, Planning, Environmental protection and Energy Management advises the network of environmental protection units. This department heads up regular meetings involving the plants’ environmental management officers in the Environmental Protection Steering Committee. The steering committee coordinates environmental protection activities in the area of production throughout the Group.
The sites of the BMW Group also have cross-technology energy groups which are tasked with continuously optimising the energy

Material impacts, risks and opportunities

Type

Stage of the value chain Policies

Globally, the network of sales partners consumes energy - and thereby uses natural resources and contributes to climate change.

Negative
Impact

− None

Targets

− None

Specific actions

− None

Concluding power purchase agreements support the development of more renewable energy capacity and saving resources and emissions.

Positive
Impact

Risk of limitations in the use of certain energy sources due to regulatory restrictions, which may confine their application to specific sectors or require physical delivery. As a result of these limitations some energy sources cannot be used for emission reduction measures.

Risk

− Energy policy

− Environmental policy

− Reduction of energy consumption by

25% by 2030

− Energy efficiency measures to optimise production technology and building services

− Replacement of old and inefficient systems with new systems that are more efficient

− Development of new processes that are more efficient and more environmentally friendly

− Replacement of fossil fuels with renewable energy sources

Globally, the network of supplier locations consumes energy - and thereby uses natural resources and contributes to climate change.

Negative
Impact

New or changing worldwide government regulations on energy use could require to adjust operations in the supply chain.

Risk

− BMW Group Climate Strategy

Climate change mitigation and adaptation as a key part of the corporate strategy

− Reduce Scope 1, Scope 2 and

Scope 3 emissions by at least 40 m tonnes CO2e by 2030

− Supply chain: use of electricity from renewable sources* and secondary materials

Path to achieving the CO2e reduction targets in 2030

Implemented actions and metrics for a holistic CO2e reduction

Upstream material Own Operations material Downstream material

* See Glossary for a definition of electricity from renewable sources.

The BMW Group attaches great importance to energy consumption and energy efficiency throughout the company. Our targets and the actions we take to reduce energy consumption are ambitious. Instead of focusing exclusively on our energy costs, we give the same level of emphasis to reducing CO2e emissions through the increased use of renewable energy sources. The
Group’s direct responsibility for its production processes is the starting point for these efforts. One of the criteria which we look at when awarding contracts is the use of electricity from renewable sources by direct suppliers (Tier 1 suppliers) and in energyintensive processes of pre-production stages (N-tier suppliers) involved in the manufacture of CO2e-intensive components and materials. Energy is a material topic for the BMW Group at all stages of the value chain. The effects of energy consumption in the supply chain and in the downstream value chain are presented separately in Climate change mitigation and adaptation as a key part of the corporate strategy.

Energy management
The BMW Group’s energy management system includes a
Group-wide energy policy which assigns clear roles – each with corresponding responsibilities, targets and reporting obligations
– to central strategy departments, regional management units and sites at the local level. This facilitates the mitigation of the direct impacts and risks identified in relation to energy at the
BMW Group’s own operations. The energy management system covers structural planning, system design, the procurement of energy and technical equipment as well as the management of the property portfolio.

Energy management regulations apply to all important energyrelated processes and properties throughout the BMW Group.
The requirements therefore apply to all geographical areas and all locations under the operational control of the BMW Group.
Overall responsibility for energy management lies with the Board of Management and extends across all organisational levels.

The BMW Group uses electricity from renewable sources at the majority of its properties, including its own photovoltaic systems
(PV). Additional PV systems were installed at the plants in Berlin
(Germany), Leipzig (Germany) and Rosslyn (South Africa) in
2024. The Group also began the process of getting additional

photovoltaic systems set up at other locations. The BMW Group sources energy (electricity, heating, steam, and cooling) externally using direct supply contracts for regenerative energy
(23%), including Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) as well as from Energy Attribute Certificates (62%). These guarantees certify that the energy we procure comes from renewable sources.

Clear internal guidelines ensure that biomethane is procured and used in line with regulatory requirements. The BMW Group is progressively transitioning to using alternative sources for heating purposes, including biomass, geothermal energy, and powerto-heat technologies. Boreholes are being drilled for a geothermal plant at the Shenyang plant in China, while the foundations have already been laid for a wood chip heating plant at the Dingolfing (Germany) plant.

By implementing and continuously monitoring environmental and energy policies, the BMW Group can mitigate risks, such as stricter environmental regulations or rising energy prices, while improving its environmental performance.

A certified energy management system is in place for energy-intensive processes and locations to ensure the accuracy and completeness of CO₂e and energy data, as well as the effectiveness of our energy management processes. The BMW Group also uses regular reporting and mandatory internal and external audits for this purpose.

The BMW Group has signed up to a number of initiatives, highlighting its commitment to climate and environmental protection.
The BMW Group adheres to the quality criteria of the RE100 standard when purchasing electricity from renewable sources.
Since 2020, all of the external electricity used for production at all of the BMW Group’s plants worldwide has come from renewable sources. The majority of our non-production sites are also powered by electricity from renewable sources.

We foster close relationships with stakeholders - including local businesses, politicians and all relevant internal parties - to ensure that their interests are taken into account when we implement energy- and location-specific projects. A detailed description of the strategy development process and our approach to engaging with external and internal stakeholders can be found in
The BMW Group Strategy and Stakeholder Engagement.

Energy targets
The BMW Group is committed to continuously implementing energy efficiency measures. It has set itself the target of reducing its energy consumption per vehicle produced by 25% by 2030 compared to the 2016 base year.* Progress toward these energy targets is tracked in an ongoing monitoring process. Each year, energy targets for internal management are set for the following year. These are based on historical energy consumption, completed and planned measures, as well as factors like capacity and utilisation rates. The target is a relative target per unit produced, measured in megawatt hours (MWh). The energy efficiency target is directly linked to controlling absolute CO₂e emissions in the context of the BMW Group’s planning processes.

The targets are established based on an analysis of the market environment combined with an assessment of technical feasibility. The analysis of technically feasible measures incorporates insights from technologic innovations.

The objective of saving energy and increasing the use of renewable energy primarily involves internal stakeholders, such as plant managers, whose opinions and interests are incorporated into the target-setting process. When it comes to using renewable energy, local stakeholders within the energy infrastructure are engaged as needed.

* Target for global vehicle production (BMW Group plants and partner plants). The efficiency target is based on internal historical data. It is specific to the Company and is not aligned with a sciencebased approach.

Changes in production planning, the introduction of new production plants and modifications to technical systems can have an impact on our progress towards achieving these energy targets.
End-of-year forecasts are developed and monitored monthly for all targets using an automated dashboard. Progress for 2024 was on track with the original plan. This same approach is used to manage Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO₂e emissions targets.

Efficiency measures and energy mix
In 2024, the BMW Group undertook a broad range of initiatives to meet carbon and energy efficiency targets at its locations.

The measures implemented to reduce energy consumption can be summarised as follows:

— Energy efficiency measures to optimise production technology and building services

— Replacement of old and inefficient systems with new systems that are more efficient

— Development of processes that are more efficient and more

environmentally friendly

In the 2024 financial year, the BMW Group's total energy consumption amounted to 6,205,004 MWh, with 48.5% sourced from renewables. Energy consumption per vehicle produced was
1.94 MWh, lower than in the previous year (2023: 1.97 MWh).

In addition to fossil fuels and renewables, the average electricity mix supplied to the BMW Group also included 12,037 MWh from nuclear energy, which accounted for 0.2% of total energy consumption.

Additionally, some of the fuel procured by the BMW Group was used to generate 556,173 MWh of electricity in the Group’s highly efficient combined heat and power plants in the reporting year.

Energy consumption per vehicle produced (automotive)3

in MWh

The BMW Group’s energy intensity for the 2024 financial year
(measured as total energy consumption in MWh per million euros of net revenue) stood at 44.13 MWh/€ million.

Energy consumption and mix at BMW Group locations1

— Replacement of fossil fuels with renewable energy sources

in MWh

The measures implemented in these categories cover all properties under the BMW Group’s operational control and all key energy-related processes. A detailed breakdown of the contributions from each category is not provided due to the measures having overlapping effects and due to external factors such as seasonal weather. Financial resources are allocated annually for energy efficiency measures so that the BMW Group can meet the
2030 energy efficiency target. Resources are made available for
Scope 1 and 2 CO₂e reduction efforts on a rolling basis to align with the 1.5°C target pathway. These extensive measures underscore the BMW Group’s commitment to meeting its energy targets.

Total energy consumption

Total fossil energy consumption

Fuel consumption from natural gas

Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products

Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from fossil sources2

Share of fossil sources in total energy consumption (in %)2

Total renewable energy consumption

Fuel consumption from renewable sources, including biomass

Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy

Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from renewable sources

Share of renewable sources in total energy consumption (in %)

renewable and nuclear components are also included.

Material impacts, risks and opportunities

Contamination with microplastics due to tyre wear particles.

Stage of the value chain Policies

− None yet

Type

Negative
Impact

Local pollution of water through unplanned discharges of polluting substances (e. g. leaks) at suppliers' production sites.

Negative
Impact

Local pollution of soil through unplanned discharges of polluting substances (e. g. leaks) at suppliers' production sites.

Negative
Impact

Risk and financial effect due to reputational damage to BMW Group's brand value with respect to controversies in connection with pollution of water.

Risk

Risk of supply chain shortages and delays in the BMW Group's supply chain in connection with pollution of water.

Risk

Risk and financial effect due to reputational damage to BMW Group's brand value with respect to controversies in connection with pollution of soil.

Risk

Risk of supply chain shortages and delays in the BMW Group's supply chain in connection with pollution of soil.

Risk

− Multistage due diligence process to uphold environmental and social standards in the supply chain (including the BMW Group Supplier
Code of Conduct)

Social and Environmental Responsibility in the Supplier Network

Due Diligence in the supplier network

− Process for responsible raw material management

Responsible raw material management

Upstream material Own Operations material Downstream material

Targets

− None yet

Specific actions

− Collaboration in the development of measurement methods for tyre abrasion

− No targets that focus exclusively and thematically on material impacts, risks, and opportunities

− Commitment to initiatives

− Risk analysis

− Overarching targets for the procedures used to perform due diligence in the supplier network

Social and Environmental Responsibility in the Supplier Network

− Sustainability questionnaire (online

assessment)

− On-site assessments of supplier locations (on-site assessment)

− Complaints procedure

Preventive and remedial measures

− Certification and traceability of raw

materials supply chains

Complaints procedure

− Implementation of local projects

− Analysis of the effectiveness of the processes and measures implemented

Due Diligence in the supplier network

− Objectives for local projects

Responsible raw material management

Social and Environmental Responsibility in the Supplier Network

Due Diligence in the supplier network

Risk analysis and control mechanisms

Preventive and remedial measures

Complaints procedure

Responsible raw material management

The BMW Group has a comprehensive environmental management system at its own operations. Detailed checks and inspections are carried out during the planning and construction of new production and other sites with the aim of eliminating air, water, and soil pollution from the outset or reducing it as much as possible. Extensive measures are implemented to ensure compliance with limits. As a result, there are no significant impacts, risks or opportunities related to pollution within the BMW Group’s own operations.*

The BMW Group assumes responsibility within its supply chain by monitoring processes and taking action to protect the environment. A materiality assessment identified risks and impacts in the supply chain related to soil and water. All guidelines, actions and targets for actively managing these material impacts and risks in the supply chain are part of the due diligence process for upholding environmental and social standards within the supplier network. These are elaborated in Social and Environmental
Responsibility in the Supplier Network.

The BMW Group’s products themselves do not present any material concerns related to air, water, or soil pollution. Further details about applicable emissions standards can be found in
Consumption and Carbon Disclosures and additional information about emission technologies in Innovations and Product Technologies.

During the use phase of the BMW Group’s products, tyre abrasion during driving produces microparticles which negatively impact the environment. Ongoing discussions on standardised methods for measuring tyre abrasion have yet to yield reliable definitions that accurately and comparably reflect the actual impact of vehicles. For this reason, the BMW Group has not yet established specific policies or targets aimed at reducing microparticles from tyre wear.

Until relevant thresholds are laid down, the BMW Group will be actively involved in developing measurement procedures for tyre abrasion and reducing wear levels while working closely with industry associations. An obligation to meet any future thresholds will also be included in specifications for tyre suppliers. Systems are being implemented to establish internal processes for measuring tyre wear. Tyre wear thresholds are expected to be published in 2025 in line with the Euro 7 regulations, and will most likely be mandatory for tire manufacturers from 2028 onwards.
The BMW Group will review these specifications and fully comply with the resulting requirements concerning tyre abrasion values through the manufacturers and then provide the disclosures required under ESRS regarding the quantification of microplastics generated during driving.

* We have reported on volatile organic compounds (VOC) used in the production process in the

past. This metric is no longer reported due to the switch to ESRS reporting and the resulting categorisation of air, water and soil pollution as immaterial in connection with our own operations. The
BMW Group will continue to address this issue and monitor it internally. Information about sitespecific solvent emissions will continue to be published in the environmental statements of the
EMAS-certified plants.

Material impacts, risks and opportunities

Type

Stage of the value chain Policies

Limiting the availability of water and/or harming the ecosystem through water withdrawals within the supply chain especially in areas of high-water stress.

Negative
Impact

Local water scarcity and threat to water supply due to high water intensity in production processes of suppliers and other preliminary products of BMW Group.

Negative
Impact

Risk and financial effect due to reputational damage to BMW Group's brand value with respect to controversies in connection with water, specifically water consumption.

Risk

Risk and financial effect due to reputational damage to BMW Group's brand value with respect to controversies in connection with water, specifically water withdrawals.

Risk

Risk of supply chain shortages and delays in the BMW Group's supply chain in connection with water, specifically water consumption.

Risk

− Multistage due diligence process to uphold environmental and social standards in the supply chain (including the BMW Group Supplier
Code of Conduct)

Social and Environmental Responsibility in the Supplier Network

Due Diligence in the supplier network

− Process for responsible raw

material management

Responsible raw material management

Targets

Specific actions

− No targets that focus exclusively and thematically on material impacts, risks and opportunities

− Commitment to initiatives

− Risk analysis

− Overarching targets for the procedures used to perform due diligence in the supplier network

Social and Environmental Responsibility in the Supplier Network

− Sustainability questionnaire (online

assessment)

− On-site assessments of supplier locations (on-site assessment)

− Complaints procedure

Preventive and remedial measures

− Certification and traceability of raw

materials supply chains

Complaints procedure

− Implementation of local projects

− Analysis of the effectiveness of the processes and measures implemented

Due Diligence in the supplier network

− Objectives for local projects

Responsible raw material management

Social and Environmental Responsibility in the Supplier Network

Due Diligence in the supplier network

Risk analysis and control mechanisms

Preventive and remedial measures

Complaints procedure

Responsible raw material management

New or changing worldwide government regulations regarding water consumption could require to adjust operations and therefore increase dependencies and availability due to exclusion.

Risk

Upstream material Own Operations material Downstream material

− BMW Group Water Strategy

− Reduce potable water consumption

− Use of alternative water sources

− Environmental policy

by 25% by 2030

− Water treatment and reuse

− Innovation and technologies for reducing water use

− Risk-based water strategy and

monitoring

Using water responsibly is a priority for the BMW Group. The
Company uses comprehensive water management policies and advanced water-saving and treatment technologies to reduce water consumption and minimise water stress1 along with the associated risks. The BMW Group works together with local stakeholders to ensure that it uses this valuable resource responsibly.

Using potable water economically has long been an essential component of the BMW Group’s environmental management system. All of our production facilities are required to reduce water consumption and use alternative sources of water, such as rainwater. The management of and responsibilities for the
BMW Group’s own operations are an integral part of the BMW
Group’s environmental policy. Holistic Environmental Management within the BMW Group

All guidelines, actions, and targets for actively managing these material impacts and risks related to water withdrawal and water consumption in the upstream value chain are part of the due diligence process for upholding environmental and social standards within the supplier network. These are elaborated in Social and Environmental Responsibility in the Supplier Network.

Water management and water protection
Water is a critical resource in various stages of vehicle production including paint shop processes. Through the implementation of water-saving processes and innovative technologies across its global production network, the BMW Group successfully reduced water consumption per vehicle by over 30% between 2006 and

As part of its environmental policy, the Group follows a water strategy that begins with a detailed analysis of water risks. This strategy addresses the risk deemed material in the Group’s own operations. The BMW Group uses the Aqueduct Atlas to identify sites in regions experiencing high or very high water stress
Measures to reduce water usage. Water risks2 such as flooding are taken into account in the site assessment process. Water-related impacts, risks and opportunities.

The BMW Group’s process for selecting new production sites incorporates the responsible management of local water resources. The BMW Group takes a holistic approach to ensure that protecting water resources is a top priority from the outset.
Hydrological and hydrogeological conditions are analysed during the site selection process alongside general water availability.
Key considerations include groundwater depth, potential rises in groundwater and their consequences, groundwater extraction and flows, and rainwater infiltration options. The geothermal potential of the subsoil is also evaluated in this context.

Engaging in dialogue with affected residents and interest groups is an important part of the site selection process for the BMW
Group. Insights gained from these discussions are carefully assessed and factored into the BMW Group’s decisions. This approach helps us to identify potential impacts on communities or farmers and mitigate them ahead of time with targeted measures.

The BMW Group assesses water risks based on the potential effects of water scarcity on its entire production network. Priorities are established and long-term measures are planned on the basis of these assessments. Detailed implementation plans are created to support these measures. These plans detail the amount of investment required. Location-based monitoring provides insights that allow us to continuously adjust our measures.
Assessing geographical conditions and collaborating with stakeholders are an integral part of our planning process. The
BMW Group is planning to install a dry separation system in the paint shop at the Leipzig plant by 2027 to further reduce water consumption. The evaluation system we use for our sites is based on the water stress index and updated as site conditions change. This allows us to react immediately as situations emerge. Locations in areas of water stress are identified and management process as part of the BMW Group’s water strategy.

The BMW Group’s water strategy focuses on both water consumption and water quality. Uniform standards for wastewater treatment technology apply across the Group in line with national legislation and applicable limits. In Germany, these include the
Ordinance on Installations for the Handling of Substances Hazardous to Water, the Water Resources Act, the Ordinance on the
Protection of Surface Waters, and the Groundwater Ordinance as implemented under the Water Framework Directive. Regular inspections are performed to ensure that these requirements are consistently met. Production sites without a connection to a public water treatment plant operate their own water treatment facilities.

quantity and quality of the water that is available, in addition to access to water. Additional information is available in Glossary and Explanation of Key Figures.

The BMW Group is also committed to protecting the oceans.
However, as no material impacts, risks or opportunities have been identified in this area, the BMW Group is not pursuing any specific strategies or practices in order to protect marine waters.
Due to the uncertainty surrounding the environmental consequences of deep sea mining, the BMW Group joined the World
Wildlife Fund (WWF) and other companies in 2021 to issue a joint statement pledging not to extract raw materials from the deep sea BMW Group Biodiversity Policy. This commitment extends to the BMW Group's suppliers and their supply chains.

Potable water consumption per vehicle produced
(automotive)2

in m3

Water consumption in production reduced again
The BMW Group has set itself the target of reducing the amount of potable water used in automobile production by 25% by 2030 compared to the base year 2016.1 In the reporting period, specific potable water consumption per vehicle in automobile production was
1.67 m3, lower than in the previous year (2023: 1.78 m3/
–6.2%). A continuous decrease in water consumption has been recorded in line with the planning of the BMW Group.

The BMW Group places great emphasis on reducing water usage, and achieves this by using the latest technologies in its water treatment and painting processes. Water-saving targets are voluntarily set for the BMW Group’s own operations on the basis of technological feasibility studies. Annual site-specific targets for relative water consumption in vehicle production are defined and monitored throughout the year to assess progress; this process is particularly relevant for management and other on-site stakeholders, whose opinions and interests are incorporated into the target-setting process.

The BMW Group evaluates water stress in the areas where individual plants are located in addition to its impact on its entire production network. If existing measures have successfully alleviated water stress, these findings are integrated into broader planning and risk assessments. Water stress can thus be continuously reduced and responsible use of water resources ensured.

The goal of sustainably decreasing (potable) water consumption applies across all sites within the BMW Group, regardless of their location. Targets in this area were defined on the basis of general environmental conditions and relationships rather than any specific environmental thresholds. Measures and targets incorporate water stress analyses performed with the Aqueduct Atlas on the basis of scientific insights into regional water availability.

Measures to reduce water usage
The BMW Group implements extensive measures to reduce water consumption in regions experiencing high or very high water stress, such as the use of rainwater at the Chennai (India) plant.
All measures are taken to support the BMW Group’s objective of reducing potable water consumption by 2030. The water consumption in stress-affected regions is also included in the metric
Water consumption in water risk and stress areas. This figure comes to
3,079,270 m3 at the sites in question.

Water treatment and reuse are measures that can play a vital role in the sustainable reduction of water consumption. Across the
BMW Group, the total water recycled and reused amounts to
4,778,429 m³. Modern circular systems, such as those used in paint shops, and cascading systems, which reuse process water multiple times before painting, significantly reduce freshwater consumption. The efficient handling of freshwater, wastewater treatment in paint shops and assembly wash stations, and the use of slightly contaminated greywater as industrial or process water decrease wastewater volumes notably. Insights from water treatment processes and the targeted use of innovations and technologies serve to enhance water efficiency. Cascade rinse systems are being implemented alongside water recycling systems, while painting systems are being converted from wet scrubbing to dry separation. During assembly, one of the most important measures is the recirculation of water in leak test chambers. This plays a key role in terms of the Group reducing its water consumption by 2030.

In engine production, measures such as switching to waterbased cooling lubricants and washing baths, the recirculation of emulsions and washing baths, extending service life through bath maintenance, and waste water treatment systems for industrial waste water containing oil and heavy metals all contribute to the reduction of water consumption. Measures used at motorcycle production sites include closed-loop treatment systems, vacuum distillation for recycling process water, and the use of closed cooling systems and water-saving fixtures. Implementation of the measures is scheduled for target achievement by

manufacturing) based on internal historical data.

Figures.

The BMW Group ensures that the water strategy and its targets are implemented by making sure that the necessary resources are properly allocated. The investment planning of the Group includes drawing up a detailed plan of all of the measures which are required and the necessary capital and operating expenses.
Continuous site-specific monitoring ensures that targets are met.
Close collaboration and regular communication with stakeholders provide a forum for identifying potential water risks and taking appropriate countermeasures, particularly in regions with high water stress. Water risks are also taken into account in the early stages of the process of selecting sites.

The BMW Group performs water risk analyses using tools like the
Aqueduct Atlas to identify high-risk areas and derives priorities for specific actions from these analyses. This process also involves assessing the potential cost of forced downtime due to water shortages. Implementing a coordinated set of measures to conserve water and improve water quality contributes to mitigating water stress at affected sites. This approach also reduces the amount of financial risk to which the Company is exposed.

The BMW Group moreover reduces freshwater usage in all production areas by leveraging alternative water sources, including rainwater, recycled process water, and surface water. In Chennai, India, for example, rainwater is collected during the monsoon season, which can cover up to 100% of the annual water demand. Similar alternative water use policies are planned for other
BMW Group production facilities.

The BMW Group’s total water consumption amounted
5,813,743 m³ in the reporting year. The water intensity (total water consumption in m³ per million € net revenue) is currently
41.35 m³/million €. In addition, as at 31 December 2024, the
BMW Group had a total amount of 455,525 m³ of stored water in systems including extinguishing water or rainwater tanks.

Water consumption*

in m3

Total water consumption

Total water consumption in areas at water risk, including areas of high water stress

Total water recycled and reused

Total water stored

Changes in storage during the year

The implementation of the water strategy and associated objectives follows a risk-based approach that accounts for regional specificities. The BMW Group takes particular care to implement additional measures to reduce water consumption in regions experiencing high or very high water stress. These measures include the extensive use of rainwater at the Chennai plant in India and the process water-free paint shop at the San Luis Potosí production site in Mexico.

* Additional information is available in Glossary and Explanation of Key Figures.

Material impacts, risks and opportunities

Usage of primary raw materials impacts nature and biodiversity in extraction areas (e. g. mining).

Type

Negative
Impact

Contribution to biodiversity loss through the direct exploitation and use of invasive resource extraction methods in the supply chain (clearing, building infrastructure around (deep sea) mining and producing sites).

Negative
Impact

Risk of supply chain shortages and delays in the BMW Group's supply chain in connection with direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss, specifically direct exploitation.

Risk

Risk and financial effect due to reputational damage to BMW Group's brand value with respect to controversies in connection with direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss, specifically direct exploitation.

Risk

Opportunities and financial benefits from increasing the supply chain resilience with respect to direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss, specifically direct exploitation, including independence from volatile markets or prevention of potentially supply-disrupting events.

Opportunity

Stage of the value chain

Policies

− Biodiversity Policy

− Multistage due diligence process to uphold environmental and social standards in the supply chain (including the BMW Group Supplier
Code of Conduct)

Social and Environmental Responsibility in the Supplier Network

Due Diligence in the supplier network

− Process for responsible raw material management

Responsible raw material management

Upstream material Own Operations material Downstream material

Targets

Specific actions

− No targets that focus exclusively and thematically on material impacts, risks and opportunities

− Commitment to deforestation-free

procurement

− Commitment to initiatives

− Implementation of local projects

− Multistage due diligence process to uphold environmental and social standards in the supply chain

Social and Environmental Responsibility in the Supplier Network

Due Diligence in the supplier network

− Process for responsible raw material management

Responsible raw material management

As part of its materiality assessment, the BMW Group identifies and evaluates potential impacts, risks and opportunities related to biodiversity. The assessment did not identify any negative impacts related to land degradation, desertification, soil sealing, or endangered species.

In terms of the BMW Group’s own operations, the assessment found that the BMW Group’s environmental management system is effective in ensuring that no material topics were identified in direct connection with the Group’s operations. An analysis* showed that the BMW Group's own operations do not have a significant negative impact on nearby protected areas.

In the supply chain, however, the extraction of raw materials was identified as a material topic. The BMW Group is currently assessing whether any risks exist in this area and what actions may be required to minimise negative impacts on biodiversity.

Great importance of intact ecosystems
The BMW Group acts in line with the aims of the EU Biodiversity
Strategy and the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework. An internal guideline on protecting biodiversity and ecosystems informs the actions of both the BMW Group and its supply chain. This guideline refers to the material impacts, risks and opportunities that have been lays out the
BMW Group’s position on biodiversity. BMW Group Biodiversity
Policy

identified, and

The department for Sustainability and Mobility is responsible for the Group’s approach to biodiversity. Implementation of the relevant topics relating to the supply chain is the responsibility of the Supply Chain Sustainability department.

Holistic approach to sustainability targets
Climate change is impacting land and marine ecosystems around the world and jeopardising the stability of natural habitats. This ultimately represents a threat to biodiversity itself. Because of this, it is vital for the BMW Group to have targets for reducing its CO2e emissions that are both measurable and sciencebased, and to ensure that these targets are firmly integrated into its strategy. The BMW
Group has set itself the target of significantly reducing the CO2e emissions of its products over their entire life cycle by 2030. Climate change mitigation and adaptation as a key part of the corporate strategy

The BMW Group has defined clear targets to counteract the main causes of biodiversity loss. Particular attention is paid to climate change mitigation, conserving resources, improving water efficiency and environmental protection, and responsible land use.

A general framework related to issues like land use is provided in an internal company document on the use of renewable raw materials in product components.

The use of marine resources was not considered to be a material topic for the BMW Group. Further information on the statement against the extraction of deep sea minerals can be found in the
BMW Group Biodiversity Policy.

Unlike CO2e emissions, there is currently no standardised scale for measuring biodiversity loss. This is probably due to the fact that these factors are valued and assessed differently in different parts of the world. Furthermore, there is no standard method for adding up local impacts on biodiversity to arrive at a global impact level. This makes it more difficult to set impact-based and quantitative targets that can serve as a starting point for developing scenarios and assessing them from a business perspective, implementing actions, and finally measuring their progress.

The BMW Group believes that reducing our use of primary raw materials puts us in a position to have a positive impact by lowering our consumption of natural resources and actively contributing to the preservation of biodiversity. The circular economy strategy sets out clear principles in this area. In addition, the aim is to strengthen the supply chain with regard to secured sources of secondary raw materials and to examine the even more extensive use of secondary raw materials. For further information, see Circular Economy and Resource Use.

The BMW Group's environmental management system has the potential to influence the stability of ecosystems. Water use and resource efficiency are key topics that are addressed
Responsible Use of Water Resources and the Holistic Environmental
Management within the BMW Group.

Measures to protect biodiversity
Compliance with environmental and social standards across the
BMW Group’s own operations and supply chain is a core element of the Group’s corporate policy. The BMW Group's current measures are based on the logic of the reduction hierarchy: avoid
– reduce – compensate. Priority is given to avoiding negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems wherever possible. The
BMW Group considers compensation to mean restoration and improvement, often in the form of on-site projects. Offsetting measures are not used for biodiversity management purposes.

The BMW Group has implemented a multistage due diligence process in the supply chain to minimise risks and negative impacts. Internal guidelines and procedures, such as the BMW
Group Supplier Code of Conduct, address biodiversity and include clear provisions on the handling of critical raw materials.
Additional details as well as information on the monitoring process are available in Social and Environmental Responsibility in the
Supplier Network and Responsible raw material management.

* Additional information is available in Glossary and Explanation of Key Figures.

As part of its commitment to deforestation-free procurement, the
BMW Group adheres to EU regulations and relevant industry standards. The Company takes a clear stance against deforestation and forest degradation in its supply chains in the BMW Group
Anti-Deforestation Policy. This policy addresses the extent of the
BMW Group’s commitment, the scope of the policy as well as due diligence and traceability measures, complaint and monitoring mechanisms, and material-specific requirements. Safeguarding measures are used in the supply chains for relevant materials such as natural rubber, leather, paper, and wood.

In addition to complying with legal requirements, the BMW Group joined the Global Platform for Sustainable Natural Rubber
(GPSNR) multi-stakeholder initiative in 2019. The aim of the
GPSNR is to prevent deforestation and forest degradation as a result of the cultivation of natural rubber. This commitment is set out in the BMW Group's High Level Commitment for sustainable natural rubber. The BMW Group is also part of the Leather Working Group (LWG). As a signatory to the “Deforestation Free Call to Action for Leather” of the LWG, Textile Exchange and WWF the BMW Group is committed to sourcing cowhide (including stamped parts) and components containing cowhide from supply chains that are free from deforestation and land conversion by 2030.

When selecting and assessing measures to protect biodiversity, the BMW Group consults stakeholders such as local communities and indigenous people. It takes part in initiatives like the Living Rubber natural rubber project in Indonesia to empower affected communities. In order for the BMW Group’s projects in this area to be effective, it is committed to actively involving local communities in the design and subsequent implementation of on-site projects. Social and Environmental Responsibility in the Supplier

Resilience analysis
In view of the importance of the protection of biodiversity and ecosystems, the BMW Group performs a comprehensive assessment of the resilience of its strategic and business model to physical and transitory risks associated with biodiversity. This involves a thorough evaluation of the entire value chain and meticulous analyses.

The materiality assessment served as a key indicator for identifying potential areas of action related to biodiversity. One of the key concerns identified was the extraction of raw materials. Potential short-term risks to individual stages of the supply chain are identified as part of the resilience analysis. This approach was used to assess the long-term resilience of the BMW Group’s strategy and business model to these risks.

The guidelines of the Taskforce on Nature-Related Financial Disclosure (TNFD) provided the basis for the scenarios used for this purpose. Various scenarios for the year 2035 were analysed with different characteristics related to the decrease in biodiversity and market coherence. The probability of occurrence of these scenarios was very low, which is why they were not assessed in the resilience analysis. In all other scenarios, the BMW Group’s business model was resilient to physical and transitory biodiversity risks. Uncertainties and factors were identified in collaboration with internal and external stakeholders to serve as the basis for the development of the scenarios.

Material impacts, risks and opportunities

Waste management of the increasing amounts of hazardous waste at Tier-1-Supplier sides (e.g. batteries) and incorrect disposal in the supply chain, including e.g. battery and electronics production, imposes detrimental impacts of the environment and society.

Type

Negative
Impact

Circular economy business models and products slow down the usage of natural and limited resources and reduce landscape and habitat disruption.

Positive
Impact

New regulations could require BMW Group to design products which meet additional recyclability requirements (e.g. increased dismantling or restricting choice of certain materials) or incorporate recycled materials which may be in short supply, leading to increased product costs.

Risk

A product made without circular principles and with high embodied Carbon footprint of materials might lead to unfavorable market access, where regulatory requirements exist (for e.g. EU battery and End of Life Vehicle regulations).

Risk

Non-compliance regarding the usage of non-regenerable resources due to increasingly stringent regulations could lead to liabilities, penalties, fines, reputational damage or the loss of licenses and permits for BMW
Group.

Risk

Financial opportunites and competitive advantages through innovation, research and development with respect to resources inflows, including resource use.

Opportunity

Possible policy instruments which favor use of low carbon footprint materials (carbon pricing) or favor recycled content (e.g. US IRA) could make the products eligible for financial incentives.

Opportunity

Stage of the value chain Policies

− Multistage due diligence process to uphold environmental and social standards in the supply chain (including the BMW Group Supplier
Code of Conduct)

Social and Environmental Responsibility in the Supplier Network

Due Diligence in the supplier network

Targets

Specific actions

− No targets that focus exclusively and thematically on material impacts, risks and opportunities

− Commitment to initiatives

− Risk analysis

− Overarching targets for the procedures used to perform due diligence in the supplier network

Social and Environmental Responsibility in the Supplier Network

− Sustainability questionnaire (online

assessment)

− On-site assessments of supplier locations (on-site assessment)

− Complaints procedure

Preventive and remedial measures

Complaints procedure

− Analysis of the effectiveness of the processes and measures implemented

Social and Environmental Responsibility in the Supplier Network

Due Diligence in the supplier network

Risk analysis and control mechanisms

Due Diligence in the supplier network

Preventive and remedial measures

Complaints procedure

− BMW Group Circular Economy

− None yet

− Increased share of secondary mateStrategy

rials

− Improved recyclability

− Expansion of repair and reprocessing

− Investments in innovative recycling

technologies

Material impacts, risks and opportunities

Type

Stage of the value chain Policies

The use of non-renewable primary raw materials impacts worldwide depletion of natural resources as well as the nature and communities at the mining location.

Negative
Impact

− Process for responsible raw material management

Risk of supply chain shortages and delays in the BMW Group's supply chain in connection with resources inflows, including resource use.

Risk

Risk and financial effect due to reputational damage to BMW Group's brand value with respect to controversies in connection with resources inflows, including resource use.

Risk

Opportunities and financial benefits from increasing the supply chain resilience by direct purchasing of raw materials.

Opportunity

Responsible raw material management

− Raw materials strategy

Raw materials security and strategy

− BMW Group Supplier Code of Conduct

Due Diligence in the supplier network

Targets

− No targets that focus exclusively and thematically on material impacts, risks and opportunities

Specific actions

− Risk analysis

− Certification and traceability of raw

materials supply chains

− Overarching targets for the procedures used to perform due diligence in the supplier network

− Commitment to initiatives

− Implementation of local projects

Social and Environmental Responsibility in the Supplier Network

Social and Environmental Responsibility in the Supplier Network

Preventive and remedial measures

Responsible raw material management

Complaints procedure

− Complaints procedure

Complaints procedure

− Analysis of the effectiveness of the processes and measures implemented

Due Diligence in the supplier network

− Objectives for local projects

Responsible raw material management

Upstream material Own Operations material Downstream material

Holistic approach for the transition to a circular economy
The circular economy is one of the strategic focus areas for the
BMW Group as an automobile manufacturer. Making greater use of secondary material is therefore a pillar of The BMW Group
Strategy. The BMW Group is committed to reducing its use of primary materials and fostering the circular economy in order to reduce CO2e emissions as well as the environmental and social impacts associated with the extraction and processing of primary raw materials. At the same time, dependencies on critical primary raw materials will be reduced. In addition, using secondary materials can provide economic advantages and hedge against geopolitical risks and regional restrictions by reducing our reliance on primary materials.

BMW Group vehicles are already manufactured with recycled and reused materials. Against the backdrop of volatile raw materials markets and increasing global competition for limited resources, the BMW Group is implementing further measures to increase the proportion of recycled materials that it uses and thereby promote the expansion of the circular economy. These efforts are supported by guidelines for product, material and supplier requirements. The circular economy necessitates holistic thinking – from product development to vehicle recycling.

For the BMW Group, the responsible use of raw materials is an important part of our daily activities as a manufacturing company. Responsible raw material management The material impacts, risks and opportunities associated with the use of resources arise primarily from their procurement markets, climate change mitigation targets, regulations relating to product or process requirements, and the opportunities related to a reduction in the demand for raw materials. The BMW Group considers the use of resources to be closely linked to the preservation of biodiversity, particularly when it comes to land use and pollution. Commitment to protecting Biodiversity Information on the supply chain, such as due diligence in the supplier network (including waste management), is available in Social and Environmental Responsibility in the
Supplier Network.

The BMW Group’s objective is to reduce its dependency on primary raw materials. The automotive industry uses a wide range of raw materials, particularly steel, aluminium and thermoplastics. Electrified vehicles use raw materials like lithium, nickel and cobalt in their batteries. The BMW Group has introduced a raw materials management system, including an annual risk analysis for critical raw materials, for the responsible procurement of raw materials. One approach is to reduce the use of critical virgin raw materials. Responsible raw material management The BMW Group’s secondary raw materials usage strategy (Secondary First) is of vital significance in this context.

The waste disposal and recycling industry already recycles endof-life vehicles, but only together with other products. A large proportion of the recycled materials obtained from these products are therefore no longer suitable for use in automotive engineering. This results in downcycling in the material cycle. To reduce the automotive industry's dependency on primary raw materials, it is therefore vitally important to improve the quality and availability of recycled materials across the board. The complex challenges posed by the limited availability of high-quality secondary materials and the need to make entire economies and businesses less dependent on the use of primary raw materials can only be met by policy makers working together with industry, raw material producers, recyclers and recycling companies.

The BMW Group’s Strategy in the area of sustainability therefore has a particular focus on reducing its consumption of primary raw materials. This is mainly achieved by making increased use of secondary materials with lower CO2e emissions and the optimisation of resource efficiency. The four strategic core elements covered below have been approved by the Board of Management.

The core elements relate to the material impacts, risks and opportunities related to resource use and the circular economy.
made with implementing the strategy is reviewed on a regular basis. Information about how the concerns of different stakeholder groups are taken into account can be found in Stakeholder
Engagement.

Milestones along the road to the circular economy
The BMW Group has set clear decarbonisation targets for itself
Climate change mitigation and adaptation as a key part of the corporate strategy. To achieve this, the BMW Group is reducing CO2e emissions throughout the whole life cycle of its products. Increasing the use of secondary materials and implementing new processes in the production of primary raw materials, such as CO2e-reduced steel production, are helping to achieve the BMW Group’s CO2e emission reduction targets in the supply chain as planned.

Already today, BMW Group vehicles are manufactured using recycled and reused materials to varying degrees. In line with the
Secondary First approach, we aim to increase the use of secondary materials going forward, starting with the NEUE KLASSE.
This approach will take both technical feasibility and market availability into account. The BMW Group is currently working on a data model and Group-wide metrics and targets that will make the use of resources even more transparent and help to close material cycles. The Group’s aim is to transparently map and manage the complex relationships between market availability, internal and legal requirements as well as the material flows of secondary materials. A corresponding target is currently being defined at the Group level. Expected new legislation, such as the proposed regulation on the follow-up legislation to the current EU
End-of-Life Vehicles Directive, are taken into account alongside international standards.

The effectiveness of the defined strategies and actions in relation to the material impacts, risks and opportunities associated with resource use and the circular economy is currently measured and tracked on the basis of the contribution to the CO2e reduction target for Scope 3 emissions (according to the Greenhouse Gas
Protocol). The progress made in achieving this target compared to the 2019 base year is reported in Climate change mitigation and adaptation as a key part of the corporate strategy. The BMW Group plans to make the following internal targets components of a future
Group-wide target in accordance with ESRS.

Internal targets for the implementation of a circular economy will be set for future models (from the NEUE KLASSE onwards) at product level. Based on the four strategic core elements, the focus is on circular product development in accordance with Design for Circularity, in which the use of secondary raw materials (Secondary First) is implemented as a guiding principle in the development process.

At the component level, the Design for Circularity principle is being implemented by the “full Vehicle Development” corporate function in an operational concept so that it can be systematically applied in the development of new models (from the NEUE
KLASSE onwards). Within the framework of selected product, material and supplier requirements, we have therefore decided to give preference to secondary materials in our future vehicles.
The BMW Group has standards that define minimum requirements for the secondary material content for materials such as steel, aluminium, plastic and copper. Secondary and primary materials must meet the same high standards of quality, safety and reliability. However, the current availability of suitable secondary materials is limited due to increasing demand and the high quality standards that need to be met for automotive applications.

Key strategic elements for the transition to a circular economy

Closing the Loop
Establishing and promoting closed loops for certain components and materials in order to keep them as a source of secondary materials in various material loops

Design for Circularity
Consistent alignment of product development with regard to circularity

Ready for Circularity
Group-wide empowerment of automotive production for the circular economy across the entire value chain

Secondary First
Increase the share of secondary material in vehicles, thereby reducing the share of primary material in the value chain, expanding the transparency for vehicle data

Measures for the responsible use of resources
For the BMW Group, the responsible use of resources is an essential part of our claim as a manufacturing company. See, for instance, Responsible raw material management, Responsible Use of
Water Resources

The Resource inflows including process materials used to manufacture automobiles amount to 14,804,645 t. The main materials used by the BMW Group in its production processes are steel, aluminium and thermoplastics.

Water, auxiliaries and operating materials are also relevant process materials. Compared to the total volume of materials used, biological materials play a minor role in terms of overall quantity.
Therefore, 0.0% of the total resource inflows are sustainably sourced biological materials. Reused and recycled secondary components, products and materials account for 37.0% (5,476,984 t). Automobiles are the main products of the BMW Group for this report. In the future, motorcycles will also be included in the reporting process. In terms of the total volume of materials used, motorcycles represent a negligibly small share.

The key actions driving the transition to a circular economy over the next years are outlined below.

The BMW Group has launched some comprehensive preparatory initiatives in line with the "Ready for Circularity" principle.
These will serve as a foundation for achieving closed material loops within the Company and across its value chain. These initiatives span research and development, material procurement, supplier qualification, production, sales, the product use phase, and optimised use of materials and components at the end of a product’s life cycle. These initiatives focus on continuously enhancing expertise and implementing measures related to vehicle development with the aim of increasing the use of secondary materials and promoting circular economy-friendly product design.

To advance a circular approach to product development, the
BMW Group is committed to drawing up global strategies for materials and components, with a particular focus on key materials such as steel, aluminium, battery materials, and thermoplastics.
The BMW Group is building up its expertise and technical capabilities in the area of high-voltage storage (HVS) system recycling. This includes planning dismantling processes, testing recycling technologies, and integrating these insights into the battery development process. To maximise resource conservation, the BMW Group is drawing up requirements for diagnosing and reusing used components, including high-voltage storage systems.

Another key initiative involves creating a data model based on digital twins, which is designed to facilitate material tracking from the end of a product’s life cycle and to ensure that the circular economy is transparent. This data model will also support the verification of secondary raw materials by suppliers and the fulfilment of disclosure requirements. We expect this data model to facilitate cross-Company data exchange in the medium term.

Other examples of measures can be found at a vehicle project level. The ambitions of the BMW Group are further exemplified in the BMW i Vision Circular, which was unveiled at the IAA in 2021.
This concept vehicle is mostly made from recycled or renewable raw materials. Some of the insights gained from this project are also being incorporated into the NEUE KLASSE. Beginning in
2025 for example, requirements for the proportionate use of secondary materials for battery cell materials such as cobalt, lithium and nickel will be imposed as soon as the contract is awarded. The NEUE KLASSE will also contain a higher proportion of secondary materials in other material groups such as steel and aluminium. Starting in 2023 with the BMW 5 Series, the
BMW Group has disclosed the share of secondary materials in its new vehicles as part of life cycle assessments Vehicle footprint.
Since 2024, the MINI Countryman has used cast wheels containing 70% secondary aluminium, measured using the mass balance method.

For the BMW Group, circularity involves a comprehensive strategic approach. The circular economy is considered in the development of products, taking into account their recyclability at the end of their use phase (Design for Circularity). This approach follows key principles that promote the use of secondary materials and make vehicles easier to dismantle and recycle.

With the “Design for Circularity” strategy, resource conservation is addressed during the vehicle development phase. This ensures that circular economy principles are embedded in the product development process from the outset. Design for Circularity also lays the groundwork for recovering high-quality secondary materials at the end of a vehicle’s life. Components are designed and developed to include a defined proportion of secondary raw materials whenever possible. This approach also focuses on selecting recyclable plastic materials during the development process that facilitate a high-quality recycling process at the end of the vehicle's life. Improved dismantling concepts make it faster and more cost-effective to disassemble parts and reintegrate materials into the parts and materials cycle.

Used components need to be refurbished and materials recycled to fully close the loop. A prime example of this holistic approach is the BMW Group’s remanufacturing process, where used parts are reconditioned and given a second life.

The BMW Group has held a 50% stake in the joint venture Encory GmbH since 2016. Encory provides comprehensive circular economy solutions, processes, and products in the aftersales sector. The company develops and implements logistics and consulting solutions, particularly for the collection, recycling, and refurbishment of spare parts. Whenever feasible and practical, defective parts are retrieved in select European markets (in addition to some other markets, like China) in partnership with the joint venture. All suitable parts undergo a refurbishment process before being reintroduced into the spare parts cycle as remanufactured components. Worn or damaged parts are disassembled by refurbishment partners instead of being completely replaced.
Selected components are then cleaned, mechanically processed or replaced as needed, before being reassembled into a spare part. This process provides high-quality replacement parts that offer a number of advantages, such as reducing our use of valuable raw materials, cutting emissions and saving energy. reducing the environmental footprint of spare parts and helping the
Group to manage resources responsibly.

The BMW Group operates its own vehicle recycling facility at the
Recycling and Dismantling Centre in Lohhof near Munich (Germany) to promote best practices in vehicle recycling while continuously learning about and implementing the latest recycling technologies. Each year, thousands of vehicles are systematically dismantled and efficiently processed at this site. Most of these vehicles are pre-production vehicle models that are no longer required for testing purposes. The focus of the entire process is on identifying reusable series components and dismantling components that are suitable candidates for recycling. The disassembly process begins with deactivating restraint systems and draining fluids. Functional components used in mass-produced models are then passed on to registered retail partners, eliminating the need for disposal. During the mechanical dismantling of the remaining vehicle, materials like copper, which have a significant impact on recyclability, are separated out. Once the engine block and transmission have been removed, the rest of

the vehicle structure is pressed and shredded. This method guarantees that today’s scrap becomes tomorrow’s raw materials.
Insights gained at the Recycling and Dismantling Centre regarding the recyclability of components and materials are already being integrated into the BMW Group’s product development processes.

The BMW Group actively promotes recycling waste, including end-of-life vehicles, to keep materials in circulation for longer;
this includes reusing them to produce new automobiles. In the reporting year, the materials from the vehicles (including motorcycles) taken back by the Munich Recycling and Dismantling
Center were 85% in material form1 and 95% including thermal processing1 recycled. This corresponds to a total scrapping weight for vehicles (including motorcycles) of 7,263 t1. In relation to sold automobiles and motorcycles, 85%2 of materials are recycled as stipulated by legal requirements (European End-ofLife Vehicles Directive ELV 2000 /53 /EC). At least 95%1, 2 of sold automobiles can be recycled (including thermal utilisation).

Together with its national sales companies and importers, the
BMW Group has already organised the return of end-of-life vehicles for recycling at more than 2,800 collection points in 32 countries. Research in this area is being stepped up in terms of the technology being used, processing efficiency, and costs in order to drive forward improvements in the recycling of end-of-life vehicles. The Car2Car project focuses on the recycling of aluminium, steel, glass, copper and plastic from end-of-life vehicles.
This project began in January 2023 and is expected to run until
December 2025. Together with representatives of the recycling industry, raw materials processors, and the scientific community, the BMW Group is leading a project to improve the quality of secondary raw materials obtained from the recycling of end-of-life vehicles. Innovative dismantling and automated sorting processes will enable recyclable materials to be extracted to a far greater extent than previously. As part of the funding project, the
BMW Group provided 433 end-of-life vehicles in 2023. In order to cover a representative range, various models out of the
BMW Group’s own from different
BMW Group brands with combustion engines, plug-in hybrid systems, and all-electric drivetrains.

inventories are used

In order to increase resource efficiency, avoid waste, and keep materials permanently and efficiently in the loop, the BMW Group is expanding its closed loops to include materials to which the
Company has direct access. This includes recycled materials from production and the sales organisation. Selected materials from production and the sales organisation are returned to selected material suppliers on an ongoing basis. Production residues generated during production can be on the one hand waste that can be processed and fed back into the production cycle as well as materials not considered as waste that can be reused directly without the need for processing. This approach makes it possible to recover recyclable materials like steel or aluminium and make them available as raw materials for new production processes.

The Chinese subsidiary BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. established a collection and recycling network for high-voltage storage
(HVS) systems in 2022 to reduce the amount of primary materials used to produce new HVS systems. Work began on implementing a network of this kind in the European Union in the reporting year. Similar networks will be gradually established over the next years in the USA and elsewhere. The BMW Group plans to use HVS materials as secondary material for the production of new HVS cells.

In addition to actions in its own operations and in the value chain, the BMW Group supports innovation within the ecosystem by investing in start-ups to test out new innovations with the aim of bringing them to the mass market. Through BMW i Ventures, the
BMW Group has invested in a number of pioneering companies which focus on resource use and resource efficiency. Cyclic Materials is developing a recycling process that reintegrates rare earth elements (REEs) into manufacturing. This innovation helps reduce the environmental impact of the global energy transition, as REEs play an essential role in the production of electrified vehicles. DeepDrive has created a cost-efficient, resource-efficient dual-rotor electric motor for vehicles. This motor increases the range of vehicles, delivers high torque density, and requires fewer natural resources. Lilac Solutions is developing an ion-exchange lithium extraction technology with enhanced recovery rates, reduced impurities, and lower acid consumption. Mangrove Lithium is working on an electrochemical process for

producing high-purity, battery-grade lithium hydroxide more cost-effectively. Our Next Energy is designing batteries with improved range and lower production costs.

The BMW Group is also investing in research and innovation projects to implement closed material cycles for certain product groups. The Circular Republic initiative, formed by the organisation UnternehmerTUM and the BMW Group in 2023, focuses on the transfer of knowledge between the world of science and companies to promote the circular economy. During the reporting year, the BMW Group continued to promote various formats and joint projects.

The BMW Group also focuses on the reparability of its manufactured products. During the product development phase, the BMW
Group already places a strong emphasis on ensuring its products can be repaired and that the components in its vehicles can be disassembled in a non-destructive manner.

rates are also possible due to differences between vehicle versions and/or recycling/recovery processes.

Extensive repair manuals and documentation are made available to all specialist workshops. The BMW Group provides a benchmark catalogue which can be used to categorise damage.
This provides guidance on whether and how repairs can be conducted, including the tools required. This catalogue can be used in combination with a visual inspection or measurement technology. A comprehensive vehicle diagnostic system can be used to pinpoint the cause of issues in connected electronic and electrical components. This makes it possible to get vehicles back on the road by replacing individual parts. Specialised spare parts for motorcycles (such as pistons and connecting rods) are provided to simplify complex repairs and significantly reduce repair times.

Effective waste management
Waste management is part of the BMW Group’s holistic approach to a circular economy and the environmental management system at its own production sites. Reducing the amount of waste for disposal per vehicle produced is an objective of the
BMW Group’s environmental policy. The BMW Group intends to reduce the amount of waste for disposal per vehicle produced by
25% by 2030 compared to the base year 2016. No material impacts, risks or opportunities related to this topic have been identified for our own operations. The relevant disclosures are therefore provided in addition to ESRS on the basis of SASB, SASB
Index.

Waste for disposal per vehicle produced (automotive)1, 2

recycled or

in production was

In the reporting period, a total of 868,084 t of the waste generated
(2023:
922,554 t)1. Of the total volume of waste, 91.7%1 (800,582 t) was recycled (material recovery) and 7.7%1 (67,502 t) was thermally recovered. The amount of waste for disposal per vehicle produced fell significantly by –20.8% year on year to 1.68 kg (2023:
2.12 kg).1

recovered

Waste generated by production1, 2

in t

Total waste

Waste for recovery

Share of material recovery (in %)

Share of thermal recovery (in %)

Waste for disposal

Share of disposed waste (in %)

The ease with which products can be repaired also has an impact on their expected durability. According to the BMW Group’s endof-life vehicle statistics, the average age of automobiles voluntarily returned to recycling centres is around 21.5 years. The industry average is around 18 years, according to an analysis by the German Federal Environment Agency.

The longevity of the vehicles produced is based on a number of pillars, which are described below:

In order to maximise the useful life of its products, the
BMW Group offers protection against the cost of unexpected repairs, such as the BMW 2+1 warranty for 36 months and other warranty services. BMW customers in Europe benefit from the fact that defects can be fixed under warranty at the original retail partner, or any other BMW Group recognised partner in the service network. In addition to the statutory warranty obligations, the BMW Group has given customers worldwide the right to have defects rectified in the event of corrosion within twelve years of the start of the quality period since 2004. The BMW Group also attaches particular importance to ensuring the long-term availability of spare parts to keep customers’ cars on the road and make sure that they retain their value over a long period of time.
The BMW Group currently offers several hundred thousand different spare parts for automobiles and motorbikes. In addition, Condition Based Services (CBS) uses sensors and special algorithms to monitor the condition of every BMW Group car. Depending on the customer's driving profile, the service life of maintenance components can thus be optimally utilised.

The BMW Group is also committed to the responsible use of resources within the supply chain. Established processes and actions help to minimise the material impacts identified here. All relevant policies, actions and targets for mitigating and managing impacts identified as material in the upstream value chain are identified as part of the due diligence process for upholding environmental and social standards within the supplier network.
Social and Environmental Responsibility in the Supplier Network

Within the framework of the implementation of the European
Green Deal and the Action Plan “Financing Sustainable Growth”, the EU Taxonomy is a cornerstone of the EU’s aspiration to become climate neutral by 2050. It aims to channel investment towards activities that are required to achieve climate neutrality.

The EU Taxonomy is a classification system that defines economic activities as environmentally sustainable based on fulfilment of predetermined technical assessment criteria.

An economic activity can only be classified as sustainable if it substantially contributes to one of the following six environmental objectives:

I. Climate change mitigation
II. Climate change adaptation
III. Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources

IV. Transition to a circular economy
V. Pollution prevention and control
VI. Protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems

Moreover, no other environmental objective may be significantly harmed during performance of the activity and the company must observe minimum safeguards, among them compliance with human rights. Since the 2022 reporting year, the
BMW Group has reported on the Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned proportion of its revenues, capital expenditure and operating expenditure for Environmental Objectives I and II.1 Following the publication of the Delegated Regulation 2023/2486, the BMW Group reported the proportion of Taxonomy-eligible revenue for Environmental Objective IV (Transition to a Circular
Economy) for the first time in the previous year. No economic activities of relevance for the BMW Group have been defined for the other environmental objectives. The BMW Group will be required to report on Taxonomy alignment for all relevant environmental objectives from reporting year 2024 onwards.

Our holistic understanding of sustainability first climate-neutral continent by 2050. The BMW Group aims to achieve net zero carbon emissions across the entire value chain2
(Scope 1, 2 and 3) by no later than 2050. Transition plan to achieve
Net Zero emissions by 2050

The BMW Group developed a holistic approach for this purpose that looks at the CO2e emissions of vehicles over their entire life cycle. The CO2e targets are integrated into the BMW Group’s control system.

Due to the continuously growing proportion of all-electric vehicles in the BMW Group’s range, emissions in the supply chain will increase in the short to medium term. The main reason for this is the higher product carbon footprint of the high-voltage battery compared to conventional drivetrain concepts. In the manufacturing process, the BMW Group therefore relies on electricity from renewable sources3, recycled materials and technical measures that have been developed to limit the increase in CO2e in the supply chain.

However, for the economic activities that are relevant to the carbon emissions during the use phase that are attributable to low-emission (until 2025) and emission-free drivetrain systems.
Indirect carbon emissions, for instance those produced when generating charging current or during the energy-intensive production of high-voltage batteries, are not taken into account in in-house production to the extent that they serve to manufacture
Taxonomy-aligned products or to the extent that they are explicitly included in the description of an activity. Increasing the energy efficiency of paint-shop processes, for example, reduces carbon emissions in in-house production, even if a purely combustionengine vehicle is painted. In light of the BMW Group’s previously defined economic activities, its sustainability efforts in this regard

found in the glossary Glossary and Explanation of Key Figures.

categories (categories 1, 4 and 11 for the Automotive Segment) applicable to the BMW Group in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.

Explanatory comments on reporting procedures
An economic activity is to be seen as Taxonomy-eligible if it is described in the Delegated Acts relating to one of the six environmental objectives, regardless of whether that economic activity meets the technical screening criteria stipulated in those Delegated Acts. Following an analysis, the BMW Group’s business activities can be summarised under the following economic activities*:

Overview of economic activities

Economic activities

Code(s)

Description

Environmental objectives

Reporting 2024

Comments

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport

The production of automobiles and motorcycles, excluding
- the sale of parts and components, such as after-sales business excluding the provision of repair services, - the supply of components for production to third parties

I „Climate change mitigation“
II „Climate change adaptation“

Taxonomy alignment

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles

The acquisition, financing, lease and operation of automobiles and motorcycles, excluding banking and insurance services performed by our non-automotive Financial
Services segment

I „Climate change mitigation“
II „Climate change adaptation“

Taxonomy alignment

Contribution to Environmental objectives II is subsumed under Environmental objective I

Contribution to Environmental objectives II is subsumed under Environmental objective I

Sale of second-hand goods

CE 5.4

Sale of used third-party brand cars purchased by the BMW Group from external parties and resold to external third parties at the end of the lease agreement

IV „Transition to a circular economy“

Taxonomy alignment

In contrast to the previous year, economic activity CE 5.4 only includes the sale of used third-party brand automobiles that are purchased by the BMW Group from third parties and resold to external third parties at the end of the lease agreement. The sale of lease returns from BMW Group brands, on the other hand, is reported under CCM 6.5. While all lease and financing activities are still reported under CCM 6.5 in their entirety, this change draws a clear distinction between the remarketing of BMW Group brand vehicles on the one hand (CCM 6.5) and the sale or trade of second-hand automobiles on the other (CE 5.4).

Explanatory comments on reporting procedures

Taxonomy eligibility

Substantial
Contribution

Do No
Significant
Harm (DNSH)

Minimum
Safeguards

Economic activity is
Taxonomy-aligned

Economic activities are described in one of the
Delegated Acts

Substantial contribution to at least one of the environmental objectives

Economic activity does not cause significant harm to other environmental objectives

Company establishes minimum safeguard procedures for human rights, bribery and corruption, taxation and fair competition

* The additional economic activities specified in Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1214 of 9 March
2022 (in particular with regard to nuclear energy and gaseous fossil fuels) are not relevant to the
BMW Group.

In order to determine the Taxonomy alignment of economic activities CCM 3.3, CCM 6.5 and CE 5.4 in the reporting year, they must be reviewed against the technical screening criteria relevant to them:

5. Substantial contribution to fulfilment of the environmental objectives ”Climate change mitigation” and ”Climate change adaptation” based on the specific carbon emissions (CO2e) for the respective vehicles for economic activities CCM 3.3 and CCM 6.5

6. Substantial contribution to the fulfilment of the environmental objective ”Transition to a circular economy” based on the specific requirements for the vehicles under consideration (“Substantial contribution”) for economic activity CE 5.4

7. Do no significant harm (“DNSH”) to other environmental

objectives based on the specific requirements for each relevant economic activity

It must also be ensured that the BMW Group has established minimum safeguards.

Substantial contribution
The BMW Group has reviewed its contribution to the environmental objectives “Climate change mitigation”, “Climate change adaptation” and “Transition to a circular economy” for the reporting year. Economic activity CCM 3.3 and economic activity CCM
6.5 both make a substantial contribution to Environmental Objective I “Climate change mitigation” due to the manufacture as well as financing and leasing of low-emission (PHEVs <50g
CO2/km WLTP by 2025) and zero-emissions vehicles (BEVs and motorcycles with 0g CO2/km). Economic activity CCM 3.3 and economic activity CCM 6.5 as undertaken by the BMW Group are also described under Environmental Objective II “Climate change adaptation”. There are, however, no identifiable values that can be separated from Environmental Objective I “Climate change mitigation”.

Climate change mitigation

Protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems

Climate change adaptation

Pollution prevention and control

I III

Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources

Transition to a circular economy

In order to identify the specific carbon emissions of PHEV that are not determined in line with Regulation (EU) 2019/631
(among others USA and China), assumptions were made based on the worst-case value for that vehicle model, even though these emissions may have been lower in reality.

Economic activity CE 5.4 makes a substantial contribution to the environmental objective “Transition to a circular economy”. Only trading with used third-party brand automobiles will be reported under CE 5.4 from the 2024 reporting year onwards.

Do no significant harm
It is not possible to fully verify compliance with the DNSH criteria for economic activity CE 5.4 due to a lack of data on tyre categories and WLTP emissions values for third-party brands. As a result, no Taxonomy-aligned share can be reported for economic activity CE 5.4. For this reason, economic activity CE 5.4 is not included in the following analysis of the DNSH criteria.

Compliance with the DNSH criteria was reviewed in the reporting year for the five additional environmental objectives, based in each case on the specific requirements specifically for economic activity CCM 3.3 “Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport” and economic activity CCM 6.5 “Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles”.

The vehicle portfolio for economic activity CCM 6.5 includes
BMW Group vehicles and vehicles from other manufacturers
(third-party products). As no data are available regarding the relevant attributes of these third-party products, it is not currently possible to make a comprehensive assessment in relation to the
DNSH criteria. For this reason, these third-party products are not currently reported as Taxonomy-aligned.

Climate change adaptation

A robust climate risk and vulnerability assessment is required for both economic activity CCM 3.3 and economic activity CCM 6.5 to determine that they do not cause significant harm to Environmental Objective II. To satisfy this requirement, the physical climate risks at all major BMW Group production sites are considered and an assessment of any damage that may occur as a result of climate change is carried out. We use long-term climate scenarios* running up to 2035 and 2050 for this purpose. Moreover, we consider potential natural hazards at all of our direct supplier locations in order to adequately take supply risks into account when selecting and evaluating suppliers. Adaptive solutions to mitigate risks are drawn up and implemented as appropriate based on the results of this risk analysis and in consultation with site representatives. Additional information is available in Procedure and methodological basis for climate-related risks and opportunities, Physical climate risks, Transitory climate risks and opportunities.

The DNSH requirements for Environmental Objective II are fulfilled for economic activities CCM 3.3 and CCM 6.5.

Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources and protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems

In order to establish that no significant harm is caused to Environmental Objectives III and VI, it is necessary to perform a comprehensive risk analysis that looks at the preservation and protection of environmental, water and marine resources for economic activity CCM 3.3 (in both cases, not relevant for economic activity CCM 6.5).

In this context, the BMW Group carries out environmental impact assessments in accordance with Directive 2011/92/EU during the construction of new and expansion of existing sites within the
EU that also take account of water and biodiversity. At locations outside the EU, the BMW Group carries out an environmental impact assessment based on EU requirements. Moreover, a certified environmental management system pursuant to ISO 14001 has been implemented at all BMW Group production sites and all local statutory requirements are observed. Holistic environmental
Management within the BMW Group

The DNSH requirements for Environmental Objectives III and VI are fulfilled for economic activity CCM 3.3.

Transition to a circular economy

The requirements for both economic activities of the BMW Group to do no significant harm to Environmental Objective IV differ for each stage of the value chain. We fulfil these requirements during the manufacturing process for BMW Group vehicles (economic activity CCM 3.3) by, for example, using secondary raw materials in our products, designing products to facilitate their recycling, managing waste at our production sites in a way that prioritises recycling over disposal, and systematically registering substances of concern along the entire supply chain. With regard to the utilisation phase and recycling of BMW Group vehicles (economic activity CCM 6.5), we have set up appropriate processes to comply with recycling requirements and established measures for managing waste during maintenance and at the end of the life cycle. All these criteria also form part of our comprehensive approach to the Circular Economy and Resource Use.

The DNSH requirements for Environmental Objective IV are fulfilled for economic activities CCM 3.3 and CCM 6.5.

Pollution prevention and control

The requirements to do no significant harm to Environmental
Objective V differ considerably for economic activity CCM 3.3 and economic activity CCM 6.5.

With regard to economic activity CCM 3.3, the BMW Group has established corresponding processes which aim to monitor and ensure legal compliance with any prohibitions and limits relating to the use of chemical substances at the vehicle level. With regard to the extended requirements for hazardous substances that fulfil the criteria of any of the classes or categories specified in Article 57 of the REACH Regulation (EC) 1907/2006 in accordance with the CLP Regulation (EC) 1272/2008 and which constitute at least 0.1% of the mass of the final product, the BMW Group has initialised a process to assess the extent to which these substances can be replaced with suitable alternatives.

Firstly, the points of the supply chain at which these substances are used were identified and assessed in a further step against the background of the state of the art and taking business, regulatory and technical concerns into account. If the use of these hazardous substances cannot be avoided, the BMW Group uses them under controlled conditions in accordance with hazardous material regulations. However, it is not possible to meet all criteria to do no significant harm to Environmental Objective V in the case of economic activity CCM 6.5. Current PHEV models with air pollutant emissions under 50 g CO2/km WLTP offered by the
BMW Group and other manufacturers may make a substantial conditions (real driving emissions [RDE]) can only be reduced for vast majority of PHEVs in the vehicle portfolio for economic activity CCM 6.5 must therefore be considered not Taxonomyaligned.

For the remaining PHEV and BEV models in the BMW Group’s vehicle portfolio, further deductions have to be made for individual models in the context of economic activity CCM 6.5 in light of the requirements for rolling resistance coefficients for tyres and in particular the external rolling noise of tyres. Owing to the limited availability of data, the eligibility of the models concerned is calculated in a simplified manner based on the tyres approved for these models, weighted by their purchase volumes and take rates.

The DNSH requirements for Environmental Objective V are fulfilled for economic activity CCM 3.3; however, not all are fulfilled for economic activity CCM 6.5, due to the RDE and tyre label requirements described.

Minimum safeguards
Additionally, companies that carry out economic activities as defined by the EU Taxonomy are required to establish minimum safeguards. They require the implementation of processes to ensure compliance with due diligence obligations both within an organisation and in stages of the upstream and downstream value chain that have been outsourced. Specifically, this refers to compliance with human rights and regulations on bribery, corruption, taxation and fair competition. In its Policy statement on respect for human rights and corresponding environmental standards, the BMW Group has, among other things, committed to compliance with the following standards for minimum safeguards as defined in Article 18 of the Taxonomy Regulation: Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and
Human Rights and the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, which we signed back in 2001. Purchasing and Supplier Network, Compliance

The minimum safeguard requirements are met.

Please refer to the remarks in the glossary for the definition and calculation of the Taxonomy-specific performance indicators revenues, capital expenditure and operating expenditure and their

The proportion of total revenues, capital expenditure and operating expenditure relating to eligible and non-eligible economic activities are shown in each case as an aggregate percentage for the BMW Group. All Taxonomy-eligible revenues, capital expenditure and operating expenditure for economic activities CCM
3.3 and CCM 6.5 are disclosed under Environmental Objective I
“Climate change mitigation”, given that there are no identifiable values for Environmental Objective II “climate change adaptation” that can be separated from Environmental Objective I “Climate change mitigation”. This approach avoids double counting of revenues, capital expenditure and operating expenditure when determining the KPI in the numerator across multiple economic activities.

In the case of capital expenditure and operating expenditure, all
Taxonomy-eligible expenditure is allocated to the two economic activities CCM 3.3 and CCM 6.5. There is no independent Taxonomy-eligible capital expenditure and operating expenditure for economic activity CE 5.4.

In most cases, values from financial data were allocated directly to the economic activities for all three performance indicators, based for example on the drivetrain or the vehicle model. In the remaining cases, an allocation mechanism was used for each economic activity and each performance indicator. For Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure for economic activity CCM 3.3, the allocator is based on long-term Taxonomy-aligned revenues generated from the Automotive and
Motorcycles segments:

— Allocator for economic activity CCM 3.3: Proportion (BEV +
PHEV [<50g CO2]) x Automotive segment revenues
(2025–2030)*

* PHEV volumes are only taken into account in the allocator until reporting year 2025 inclusive.

The allocator is based on detailed long-term corporate planning for the next six years, as approved each year by the Board of
Management and Supervisory Board. This formula is used for capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment (including right-of-use assets from lessee relationships), intangible assets and expenditure on research and development for economic activity CCM 3.3. For operating expenditure, the allocator is only applied to non-capitalised development costs.

For other operating expenditure (non-capitalised right-of-use assets (lessee), maintenance/repair expenses) relating to economic activity CCM 3.3, the formula is based on the Taxonomyaligned revenues generated from the Automotive and Motorcycles segments in the reporting period.

For Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure for economic activity CCM 6.5, the allocator is based on the
Taxonomy-aligned financing volume for new customers in the current financial year:

— Allocator for economic activity CCM 6.5: DNSH alignment factor x BEV proportion x financing volume attributable to new customer contracts (2024)

It refers to capital expenditure on leased products.

Further increase in Taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure and operating expenditure in the 2024 reporting year
The following overview tables summarise the performance indicators revenues, capital expenditure and operating expenditure from Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned economic activities of the BMW Group. Regardless of the Taxonomy requirements, the BMW Group regularly and comprehensively addresses risks arising from climate change and their potential impact on its locations and supply chains. Climate change adaptation,

— BMW Group perspective

Both performance indicators - capital expenditure and operating expenditure - continued to grow year on year at the
BMW Group level. This reflects the BMW Group’s increased investment in sustainable products and plant infrastructure as part of the ongoing electrification process. The Taxonomy-aligned proportion of capital expenditure was 29.1%, which was 3.1% higher than in 2023 (€ 10,687 million).
Taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure as a proportion of the BMW Group’s total capital expenditure is impacted significantly by additions related to leased products. Consequently, an examination of the proportion of Taxonomyaligned capital expenditure at the BMW Group level does not reflect the huge investment in sustainable economic activities and products. Operating expenditure incurred for Taxonomy-aligned
€ 2,146 million, corresponding to over 32% of Taxonomyeligible operating expenditure (2023: 31%).

amounted

economic

activities

The Taxonomy-aligned proportion of the BMW Group’s revenues fell slightly in 2024. They amounted to € 20,819 million (2023: € 23,690 million), corresponding to 14.6% of total Group revenues and a decrease on the previous year of about half a percentage point. This was mainly driven by changes in the pricing structure of the Taxonomy-aligned
BEV portfolio and negative elimination effects between the
Automotive segment and the Financial Services segment.
Voluntary additional information on the Taxonomy-aligned share per economic activity

— Economic activity CCM 3.3, “Manufacture of low-carbon

technologies for transport”
The Taxonomy-aligned share of revenues generated by the
Automotive and Motorcycles segments corresponded to
13.4% (economic activity CCM 3.3 “Manufacture of lowcarbon technologies for transport”) of total Group revenues
(2023: 15.0%). As a percentage of third-party revenues of the two segments, the Taxonomy-aligned share equaled to
20.3% (2023: 22.1%). Course of Business and Segments

The Taxonomy-aligned proportion of capital expenditure fell slightly by just under 2 percentage points to 20.9% (2023:

22.7%). This is due to the disproportionate increase in total capital expenditure relative to capital expenditure in the Automotive and Motorcycles segments. Looking only at the
Taxonomy-aligned additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment in the context of additions recorded by the Automotive and Motorcycles segments, however, the proportion of Taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure went up by a percentage point to 61.5%.
Voluntary additional information on the Taxonomy-aligned share per economic activity

— Economic activity CCM 6.5, “Transport by motorbikes,

passenger cars and light commercial vehicles”
The Taxonomy-aligned shares for the three performance indicators are at a low single-digit level for the Financial Services segment, but are on an upwards trajectory. This is due to the fact that there is a time lag before the effects of the vehicle fleet electrification ramp-up impact the financing and leasing lines of business. A further reason is the varied, stricter DNSH requirements for economic activity CCM 6.5, in particular those relating to Environmental Objective V
“Pollution prevention and control”, which lead to the exclusion of almost all PHEV and a significant restriction in the recognition of BEV (for details see section Do no significant harm). Third-party brands are not included in the vehicle portfolio in the reporting on Taxonomy alignment for economic activity CCM 6.5. A lack of available data regarding the tyre categories or WLTP emission values of third-party products makes it impossible to review compliance with the DNSH criteria in full.

The Taxonomy-aligned proportion of capital expenditure in the Financial Services segment rose by almost 250% on the previous year to 8.2% (€ 3,006 million). Based on total capital expenditure in the Financial Services segment, the Taxonomy-aligned proportion more than doubled to 12.4%.
Taxonomy-aligned revenues increased more than four-fold year on year to € 1,742 million.

— Economic activity CE 5.4, “Sale of second-hand goods”
As stipulated by Delegated Regulation 2023/2486, the
BMW Group is reporting on the Taxonomy-aligned proportion of revenues for economic activity CE 5.4 for the first time. This economic activity includes revenues from the sale of used third-party brand passenger cars after their intended use by clients in the Financial Services segment, but does not include revenues from the sale of used third-party brand motorcycles. Around 1.2% of total revenues are Taxonomyeligible in reporting year 2024 (20231: 1.1%). The Taxonomy-aligned share is zero due to a lack of data concerning the DNSH criteria.

As the overview tables from Delegated Regulation (EU)
2023/2486 do not provide a detailed picture of
BMW Group’s business model per economic activity, the following table provides detailed information about the three performance indicators as regards Taxonomy alignment, reported separately for economic activities CCM 3.3, CCM 6.5 and CCM

Voluntary additional information on the Taxonomy-aligned share per economic activity

Revenues2

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport (CCM 3.3)

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles (CCM 6.5)

Sale of second-hand goods (CE 5.4)

Taxonomy-non-eligible revenues

Total revenues BMW Group

Capital expenditure3

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport (CCM 3.3)

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles (CCM 6.5)

Taxonomy-non-eligible capital expenditure

Total CapEx BMW Group

Operating expediture4

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport (CCM 3.3)

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles (CCM 6.5)

Total OpEx BMW Group3

in € million

by activity

by activity

in € million

of which
Taxonomy-aligned

in %

2023⁵ in %

Proportion

Proportion

of which
Taxonomy-aligned

Proportion

Proportion

by activity

of which
Taxonomy-aligned

Proportion

Proportion

basis.

BMW Group’s capital expenditure.

Revenues for economy activity CCM 3.3 include small amounts from Taxonomy-aligned activities related to the BMW Group’s company car programme. These company cars are generally transferred to the BMW Group’s external sales programme within twelve months after a short period of in-house use.

Contextual KPI information related to Taxonomy-aligned economic activities

in € million

Revenues

Sales of products, related goods and revenue of service contracts

Revenues related to financial services

Total

Capital expenditure

Economic activity CCM 3.3

Property, plant and equipment*

Development costs

Leased products

Total

Economic activity CCM 6.5

Property, plant and equipment*

Development costs

Leased products

Total

Total

Operating expenditure

Economic activity CCM 3.3

Development costs – not capitalised

Right-of-use assets (lessee) – not capitalised

Maintenance/repair expenses

Total

Economic activity CCM 6.5

Development costs – not capitalised

Right-of-use assets (lessee) – not capitalised

Maintenance/repair expenses

Total

Total

* Including intangible assets and right-of-use assets from lessee relationships.

CapEx plan for Environmental Objective I “Climate change mitigation”
A CapEx plan is required to be drawn up for capital expenditure and operating expenditure that expand Taxonomy-aligned economic activities or allow Taxonomy-eligible economic activities to become Taxonomy-aligned. This plan has been approved by the Board of Management of BMW AG and covers a seven-year period (2024–2030). The CapEx plan covers capital expenditure and operating expenditure for the reporting year and planned capital expenditure and operating expenditure (only non-capitalised development costs) for 2024–2030 for economic activities
CCM 3.3 and CCM 6.5. The selected future period corresponds to the detailed long-term corporate planning of the BMW Group

and contains various investment measures with different implementation times (e.g. electrification of the vehicle fleet, model revisions, structural investments in production sites). The CapEx plan earmarks € 73,451 million for economic activity CCM 3.3 and € 25,324 million for economic activity CCM 6.5. The increase in Taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure and operating expenditure as compared to the previous year’s plan can largely be attributed to generally higher capital expenditure and operating expenditure associated with electrification until the end of the decade.

CapEx plan for expansion of or transformation into Taxonomy-aligned economic activities

in € million

Economic activities

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles

Total

Code(s)

CCM 3.3

CCM 6.5

Revenues

Financial year 2024

Substantial contribution criteria

DNSH criteria
("Does not significantly harm")

Economic activities

in € million

in % E T

A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned)

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles

Revenues of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)

Of which enabling

Of which transitional

A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities
(not Taxonomy-aligned activities)

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

15.0 E

15.0 E

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

Sale of second-hand goods2

CE 5.4

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

Revenues of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities
(not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2)

A. Revenues of Taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1+A.2)

Revenues of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities

Total

Capital expenditure

Financial year 2024

Substantial contribution criteria

DNSH criteria
("Does not significantly harm")

Economic activities

in € million

in % E T

A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned)

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles

CapEx of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)

Of which enabling

Of which transitional

A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities
(not Taxonomy-aligned activities)

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

22.7 E

22.7 E

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

CapEx of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities
(not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2)

A. CapEx of Taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1+A.2)

CapEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities

Total

Operating expenditure

Financial year 2024

Substantial contribution criteria

DNSH criteria
("Does not significantly harm")

Economic activities

in € million

in % E T

A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned)

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles

OpEx of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)

Of which enabling

Of which transitional

A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities
(not Taxonomy-aligned activities)

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

30.9 E

30.9 E

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

N/EL

OpEx of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities
(not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2)

A. OpEx of Taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1+A.2)

OpEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities

Total

Entries in the EU Transparency Register and in equivalent registers of the Member States

Register name

Identification number in the register

BMW AG

EU Transparency Register

Lobby register for the representation of interests vis-àvis the German Bundestag and the Federal Government

R002370

Bavarian lobby register

DEBYLT007F

BMW Motoren
GmbH

Lobbying and interest representation register

LIVR-01130

BMW Automotive
(Ireland) Ltd.

Register of Lobbying maintained by the Standards in Public Office
Commission

BMW France S.A.

Register of Lobbying maintained by HAUTE AUTORITÉ POUR LA
PUBLIQUE (HATVP)

5HABRCXV, ZV92LP1H, YVIKRQAH, PVXASO43, UVPUF1GH, GVTU7903, EVJFE0PH, LV1DGNI3, BHOB62A3, 0VE7PMF3, Y3GQAMLH, DHMZCMYV, Y3KG6M5V, 0V2ARJJV, LV1C6E0V, C34BL90V, Q36SB5KV

CO2e footprint1

in t CO2e

Total emissions (market-based)2

Total emissions (location-based)

Total emissions2

BMW Group locations2

Company vehicles2, 3

Company-owned airplanes2

Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated ETS (in %)

Total emissions (market-based)2

Electricity/heating/cooling purchased by BMW Group locations (market-based)2, 4

Electricity purchased for company vehicles (BEV) (market-based)2, 3, 4

Entries in the EU Transparency Register

Total emissions scope 1+2

non-reduction-targeted scopes

share of biogenic emissions

Reduction path targeted scopes

Base year:

Deviation to previous year in

Annual % of target/base year

mainly guided

mainly guided

mainly guided

mainly guided

mainly guided

mainly guided

mainly guided

mainly guided

mainly guided

mainly guided

mainly guided

mainly guided

mainly guided

mainly guided

mainly guided

mainly guided

emissions of the category Company vehicles (Scope 1), as well as of the average electricity mix supplied to the BMW Group in the category electricity/heat/cooling purchased by BMW Group locations is included. Emissions under Scope 2 are included in the target using the market-based calculation.

CO2e footprint1

in t CO2e

Base year:

Deviation to previous year in

Annual % of target / base year

Total emissions2

Purchased goods and services2, 3

Capital goods

Fuel and energy-related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2)

mainly guided

mainly guided

Upstream transportation and distribution [Logistics]2, 4

mainly guided

Waste generated in operations

Business travelling

Employee commuting [Employees' commuter traffic]5

Upstream leased assets

Downstream transportation

Processing of sold products

Use of sold products [Use phase]2, 5

End-of-life treatment of sold products [Disposal]3

Downstream leased assets

Franchises

Investments

Total emissions scope 3

non-reduction-targeted scopes

share of biogenic emissions

Reduction path targeted scopes

mainly guided

mainly guided

mainly guided

mainly guided

mainly guided

purchased goods and services category and 1.01 TWh in the end-of-life treatment of sold products [disposal] category.

share of emissions is included in the figure for the Purchased goods and services category.

Scope 3 categories are assessed for both current reporting and target-setting purposes in accordance with the guidelines of the
Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Besides the absolute volume and share in total emissions, the most important criterion is the extent to which they can be influenced directly. Based on this approach, the categories “Purchased goods and services”, “Upstream transport and distribution [Logistics]”, and “Use of sold products
[Use phase]” are both reported and factored into the target-setting process. In the target Scope, we therefore achieve coverage of more than 95% of all Scope 3 emissions. Additional reported categories are excluded from the reduction target because the volumes in question are relatively small (Business travelling and
Employee commuting) or because the BMW Group is limited in terms of how much it can influence them directly (End-of-Life treatment of sold products [Disposal]).

Biogenic emissions1

in t CO2

Total biogenic emissions

Scope 1

Scope 2 (market-based)2

Scope 3