Proportion of non-tariff female employees at
BMW AG / BMW Group in %

BMW AG

BMW Group

12.7 *

* Figure adjusted.

At the same time, the workforce in Germany is also becoming more international. In Munich alone, employees from 98 different countries work together successfully. We also attach importance to a balanced age structure in the workforce, with a view to promoting exchanges between the generations and mitigating the loss of know-how when older employees retire.

Employee attrition rate at BMW AG* as a percentage of workforce

* Number of employees on unlimited employment contracts leaving the Company.

SUSTAINABILITY

Sustainable management
Sustainability for the BMW Group means making a lasting positive contribution to economic success, thus creating added value for the business. Manufacturing with efficient and resource-friendly production processes and offering customers state-of-the-art solutions for sustainable individual mobility gives the BMW
Group a competitive advantage. Our employees play a vital role in this context with their personal commitment and ideas, a fact borne out, for example, by the
€ 31 million saved in 2014 alone in conjunction with the ideas management system in place throughout the
BMW Group. Our commitment to sustainable management and our aspiration for social responsibility along the entire value chain are firmly embedded within the
BMW Group.

As well as requiring social and ecological aspects to be taken into account in internal decision-making processes, the BMW Group’s sustainability management system involves the systematic analysis of external factors and a continual dialogue with our stakeholders.

Materiality process
Global megatrends such as urbanisation or climate change have an impact on both regulatory conditions and customer requirements, causing new fields of business to arise. In order to recognise any such changes in good time, we regularly perform a review using our materiality process. In this context, we analyse the importance of challenges on society, both from the point of view of different stakeholder groups and from an internal BMW Group perspective. The results of the materiality analysis – shown in the materiality matrix – form the basis for our regular verification of the direction our sustainability strategy is taking.

Sustainability ratings
In 2014 the BMW Group was able to maintain its position as most sustainable premium manufacturer in the automotive industry and again secured excellent placings in widely regarded ratings. In the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI), for instance, the BMW Group took first place in the Automobiles sector. The BMW
Group is therefore the only enterprise in this sector to have been listed in the index without interruption since its inception. In the Global 500 rating of the Carbon
Disclosure Project (CDP), we again achieved 100 out of a possible 100 points for transparent reporting and the best mark for climate protection measures, thus retaining our leading position again in 2014. Based on this result, the BMW Group is listed with the highest performance score “A” in the global Climate Performance Leadership

Environment

Performance Indicators

Position and Net Assets

of BMW AG

Reporting Period

Opportunities

Management System Relevant for the
Consolidated Financial Reporting Process

and Explanatory Comments

Materiality matrix

Importance for stakeholders

Product safety
Environmental and social standards in the supply chain 
Anti-corruption / compliance 

Future mobility / mobility services 

Efficient use of resources and recycling management

 Energy supply

 CO2 emissions

and climate change

 Alternative drivetrain

technologies

 Water

Corporate Citizenship 

Further education and training 

 Human rights / Occupational health and safety

 Demographic change

 Biodiversity

 Diversity

 Work-life balance

 Donations / sponsoring

 Corporate volunteering

Importance for BMW Group

Index (CPLI) – as the only automotive producer for five consecutive years. The BMW Group was also included in the British FTSE4Good Index again in 2014.

Clean production
The BMW Group improves resource efficiency by integrating environmental management in all of its production processes. Since 2006 we have reduced both the volume of resources utilised and the emissions per vehicle produced by an average of 45.0 %.*

The individual figures are as follows:

The BMW Group again reduced the energy consumption per vehicle produced by 4.7 % to 2.25 MWh during the period under report. One of the measures that contributed towards the efficiency improvement was the utilisation of intelligent energy data management. It is a component of the BMW Group’s “Industrie 4.0” production concept and based on intelligent electricity meters that continually measure the energy consumption levels of production facilities and robots and compare them with a centralised corporate network for the purpose of detecting and avoiding, at the earliest possible stage, any deviations that lead to excessive electricity consumption.

Energy consumption

Water consumption

Process wastewater

Non-recyclable waste

Solvent emissions

CO2 emissions

The utilisation of highly efficient, ecologically sustainable combined heat and power plants (CHPs) and the use of electricity generated from renewable sources at our production sites, as well as improved energy efficiency measures, enabled us to reduce CO2 emissions per vehicle produced by a further 2.9 % year-on-year to
0.66 tonnes during the period under report.

In 2014 we reduced both the volume of resources utilised and the emissions per vehicle produced by an average of 6.7 % compared with the previous year, giving rise to savings of € 15.8 million.

* Including joint venture BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd., Shenyang, excluding contract production.

At 2.18 m³ per vehicle produced, water consumption was maintained at a stable low level. At 0.47 m³ the same applies to the volume of process wastewater generated per vehicle produced.

The volume of non-recyclable production waste was further reduced to 4.93 kg per vehicle produced in 2014, an improvement of 14.0 %. A number of measures contributed towards this development, one of which was an additional improvement in the treatment of washing

Energy consumed* per vehicle produced in MWh / vehicle

Water consumption* per vehicle produced in m3 / vehicle

* Excluding contract production, adjusted for CHP losses.

* Excluding contract production.

water used in the production of passenger car brake discs at the Berlin plant.

Solvent emissions were sharply curtailed by 18.9 % to 1.29 kg per vehicle produced during 2014, which is mainly due to the fact that in the Chinese plant in
Dadong* the retrofitting of the paint shop with an exhaust air cleaning system was reflected in full-year statistics for the first time.
* Joint venture BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd., Shenyang.

Sustainability along the entire value chain
Sustainability criteria also play a major role in the selection and assessment of our suppliers as well as in the field of transport logistics. The active management of sustainability risks along the supplier chain reduces compliance and image risks. With this in mind, the BMW
Group has integrated a comprehensive system of sustainability management in its purchasing processes.

The amount of energy needed for transportation worldwide has risen considerably in recent years. In order to keep CO2 emissions to an absolute minimum, we adhere to the principle “production follows the market”. Moreover, we are continually increasing the percentage of low-carbon modes of transport we use. In total, 63.3 % of all new vehicles left our plants by rail during the twelvemonth period under report (2013: 60.7 %).

Fleet CO2 emissions again reduced
For many years now, the use of our Efficient Dynamics technologies in series production has enabled us to continually reduce the CO2 emissions generated by our vehicles. Again in 2014, further progress was made in the electrification of our fleet with the introduction of the BMW i8 plug-in hybrid sports car and the launching of the BMW i3 in additional key markets. These measures form the basis for complying with legally stipulated
CO2 and fuel consumption limits going into the future.

CO2 emissions* per vehicle produced in t / vehicle

Process wastewater* per vehicle produced in m3 / vehicle

* Excluding contract production, adjusted for CHP losses.

* Excluding contract production.

Environment

Performance Indicators

Position and Net Assets

of BMW AG

Reporting Period

Opportunities

Management System Relevant for the
Consolidated Financial Reporting Process

and Explanatory Comments

Waste for disposal* per vehicle produced in kg / vehicle

Volatile organic compounds (VOC)* per vehicle produced in kg / vehicle

* Excluding contract production.

* Excluding contract production.

Between 1995 and 2014, the average CO2 emissions of the vehicles we sold in Europe fell by 38 %. In 2014, the BMW Group’s fleet of new vehicles sold in Europe
(EU-28) consumed an average of 4.9 litres of diesel per
100 km and 6.0 litres of petrol respectively. CO2 emissions averaged 130 grams per km. In Germany, too, we led the field among premium-segment manufacturers with average CO2 emissions of 136 grams per km. In 2014 the BMW Group’s fleet included as many as 53 models emitting less than 120 grams of CO2 per km. Our efficient technologies have given us a competitive edge, particularly in markets where a CO2based vehicle tax is levied.

Further information on the subject of sustainability in the BMW Group is available in our online sustainability report at: www.bmwgroup.com / sustainability. The
Sustainable Value Report 2014 was prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G3.1) guideline and, at Level A+ (GRI-tested), fulfils the highest application level of the GRI guideline. It will be published in conjunction with the Annual Report 2014.