Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Management

The BMW Group operates at the area of tension with challenging, increasingly complex and differentiated influencing factors around the world. Along with macroeconomic factors such as inflation and the level of interest rates, this also includes the increasing uncertainty and volatility of the general situation:

— Geopolitical challenges that affect business activities and

global supply chains

— Increased competitive dynamics
— Megatrends such as electrification and connectivity
— A capital market focused on profitability and growth
— Sustainability and circularity
— Societal expectations in the face of climate change
— Demographic change

We constantly refine our corporate strategy and align our strategic targets with these influencing factors and their dynamic rate of change as important input parameters.

The BMW Group’s integrated strategy is based on fundamental values and elements such as the integrity of our actions and takes account of the increasing pace of change in an ongoing process. Compliance and Human Rights Its starting point is the analysis of the global megatrends that are of crucial importance for the transformation of the automotive industry. Its core components are the integrated, continuous strategy process, the target system and Performance Management.

A company’s success depends to a large extent on its ability to recognise changes in its environment early on, plan for different scenarios, effectively manage risks and take advantage of opportunities that may arise from such changes Risks and
Opportunities. To this end, we continuously monitor the business environment in our key regions, using available data to analyse the trends and developments that could affect our business in the future. Regular Dialogue with Stakeholders within the scope of the BMW Group XChange formats completes the picture from the analysis of external and environmental factors.

The most important megatrends with long-term implications for the BMW Group’s business model are currently mobility patterns in society, climate change as well as the reduction of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and resource consumption, electromobility, digitalisation and connectivity – including automated and autonomous driving.

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Mobility patterns
Individual mobility remains a fundamental human need, though vehicle ownership depends to a large extent on income, household size and location. On-demand mobility (ODM) services remain relevant, especially in urban areas, but are mainly used as a supplementary option.

Climate change and CO2 reduction
We see the consequences of climate change as a major challenge for the future. As governments around the world work to transpose the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement into national laws, investors are increasingly evaluating companies and their business models according to ESG criteria. BMW Group and capital a company’s business activities according to sustainability criteria.

In the transport sector, a swift transition to electromobility is an important prerequisite on the road to climate neutrality. By 2030, a complete array electric vehicles in terms of both product diversity and range will be offered. Growing demand is additionally

Digitalisation and connectivity
The modern vehicle is already one of the most complex digital items owned by consumers. The implementation of software increasingly makes vehicles products which are expected to have corresponding digital functions. These are expected to provide reliable help and support in everyday life, offer additional options and fit seamlessly into a customer’s personal environment.
Accordingly, customer expectations are advancing worldwide and are an important factor in purchasing decisions.

Beyond vehicle digitalisation, connectivity offers further potential along the value chain. To this end, the BMW Group founded the virtual platform Catena-X Automotive Network, together with other manufacturers, system suppliers and technology partners.
Catena-X connects global players to entire value chains with the

Automated/autonomous driving
Alongside digitalisation, development of automated/autonomous driving remains a key expectation for the future of mobility. Due to the importance of this topic for the automotive industry and the complexity of the technologies and required expertise, extensive funding is being channelled into development in this area worldwide.

Concrete requirements and regulations for autonomous driving are likely to be in place in some individual countries and regions

The BMW Group regards the strategy process as a continuous task. The Board of Management therefore regularly addresses strategic issues. The assumptions underpinning our strategy are regularly reviewed based on our environmental analysis. The
BMW Group’s corporate strategy, including its product strategy and its strategic goals, are the starting point for business departments to define concrete approaches and the corresponding measures. This process takes place via a closed-loop planning and management system. The strategy is integrated into longerrange corporate planning that is revised annually. Its implementation is monitored by a target system that is comprised of the aspects of finance, customers, processes, learning and development. Performance Indicators and Performance Management. The strategy process allows plans to be drawn up for different scenarios to account for increasingly volatile and challenging environmental conditions, thereby ensuring flexibility and responsiveness.

Corporate strategy
The BMW Group’s strategy is oriented to its corporate purpose.
It is the driving force, the guiding principle and the orientation for our employees, and our commitment to our active role in society:
“The BMW Group exists to move body, heart and mind.”

With this in mind, the BMW Group’s corporate strategy, referred to as the “BMW Group strategy”, defines the strategic framework and lays the foundation for the Company to maintain a consistent and market-oriented focus on profitability, growth and sustainability, even in an increasingly dynamic environment. The
BMW Group strategy outlines targets in four areas: position, direction, strategic approach and collaboration.

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

BMW Group Strategy

Position

Direction

Strategic approach

Collaboration

Position –
What does the BMW Group stand for?

The BMW Group is committed to first-class individual mobility and contributes to sustainable development. It aims to find the right balance between business, the environment and society, and combines pleasure and responsibility without compromise.
The BMW Group is committed to the Paris Climate Agreement and to providing a verifiable track record of continuous improvement. To achieve this, the BMW Group promotes the reduction of CO2 emissions throughout the whole life cycle of its products as well as the principles of the circular economy – from the supply chain to production, the use phase and the recycling of its products. For this reason, the BMW Group has laid out measurable, science-based targets to be reached by 2030; these are firmly established across the Company (base year 2019). CO2 emissions are to be reduced as follows:

1. An average of 80 % carbon reduction at our own production sites and locations (Scope 1 and 2) per vehicle produced
( Reduce carbon emissions at the locations)

the new generation of combustion engine technology will make this possible. An additional driving force for this is the dynamic growth in demand for our electrified vehicles

3. An average of at least 20 %* carbon reduction in the supply chain (Scope 3 upstream) per vehicle produced
Carbon emissions in the supply chain

We have joined the Science-Based Targets Initiative (SBTi) for this purpose. This will enable us to guarantee transparency and comparability in the validation and measurement of our targets and, at the same time, ensure they are in line with the latest scientific findings. Carbon emissions

Control parameters such as carbon emissions over the entire product life cycle are important Performance indicators during the development phase of our vehicle projects. The Board of Management receives and discusses a status report on sustainability every quarter and derives appropriate measures as required.

2. Carbon reduction during the vehicle’s use phase (Scope 3 downstream) by an average of at least 50 % per kilometre driven. Increased efficiency in our electrified models and

The BMW Group is actively working on numerous projects and initiatives to improve the framework conditions for electromobility, including the expansion of charging infrastructure on a broad basis. The ambitious goals of the Paris Climate Agreement are

designed to tackle climate change in the transport sector, requiring a combination of modern drive technologies that are closely aligned with customer needs and different mobility requirements around the world. In addition to all-electric models, plug-in hybrids and modern combustion engine technologies also make an important contribution to the reduction of global CO2 emissions.
The BMW Group is also continuously forging ahead with its work

ESG criteria are built into individual market strategies across our global organisation. Best practices in the fields of environmental protection, social sustainability, corporate citizenship and governance are also shared within an international sustainability network.

Direction –
What drives the BMW Group?

The BMW Group offers exciting products for current and future generations and secures its independence as a company by maintaining a high level of profitability. The BMW Group is shaping the future of sustainable mobility with its passion and strong capacity for innovation. Thanks to its exciting products, the
BMW Group is able to achieve maximum customer satisfaction and brand strength, and thus grow its market share.

Economic performance is a very important aspect of our corporate management system. To underline the importance of the
BMW Group’s profitability, our ambitious financial targets are tied to the following strategic key performance indicators: EBIT margin in the Automotive segment (between 8 and 10 %), RoCE in the
Automotive segment (at least 18 %) and Group EBT margin (more

* For the sake of simplicity, this figure has been rounded. The target validated under SBTi is 22 %.

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

As part of our focus on efficiency, we regularly assess ways to utilise synergies and efficiencies across the Company. In this way, we reduce the complexities that arise from increasingly strict and heterogeneous regulatory requirements. Faster, digitalised processes in lean structures are fundamental to systematically leveraging efficiencies.

Strategic approach –
Where is the BMW Group heading?

The BMW Group is focused on its customers worldwide and on meeting their different requirements. It does so by understanding the needs of its current and future customers and exceeding their expectations. It combines groundbreaking technologies, emotional products and individual customer care to create a unique overall experience. The topics of electrification, digitalisation and circularity are of particular importance.

We recognised the importance of electromobility early on and have been working resolutely to implement this transformation in the Company. The BMW Group invests in both the renovation of existing plants and the development of employee skills, with the view that continuous training guarantees jobs worldwide. Employees and Society The restructuring of our main plant in Munich, set to be completed by 2026, demonstrates how the
BMW Group is successfully shaping the transformation of an entire plant – including engine production – during ongoing production, from combustion engine technology to 100 % electromobility.
In this context, the BMW Group is making considerable investments to also drive this continuous transformation in all aspects
Employees and Society

The BMW Group is making customer experience the focus of all its marketing and sales activities. The aim is to offer the industry’s best premium customer experience. In an increasingly digital environment with changing customer needs, the Company relies on a future-oriented sales structure with a focus on the digitalisation of the customer interface and direct customer access. In this context, the My BMW App and MINI App play a significant role with almost ten million users at present. More than two million customers access the apps every day. Using their smartphones, they interact with their BMW or MINI vehicles, the
BMW Group itself and the BMW and MINI dealerships and also receive personalised offers. The relationship with the customer thus becomes even closer.

In the future, direct sales with agents as sales representatives in
Europe and China will become a further essential element of the realigned sales structure. MINI will be the first Group brand to implement the new sales model in Europe and China, and the
BMW brand will follow suit in Europe in 2026. This is how the
BMW Group is decisively driving forward with its online sale of vehicles.

Customers are free to choose whether they would like to order their vehicle from agents or online. They also have the option to seamlessly switch between both worlds. At the same time, we aim to achieve consistent prices across all sales channels, providing a beneficial transparency for our customers. The trading partners will be closely involved in the implementation. The new sales structure offers an attractive and sustainable business model for these partners, and they will continue to be the face for customers in the future, where they can focus on providing the best advice and support. In turn, the BMW Group is improving customer access through direct sales, a basic requirement when aiming to offer the best customer experience in the industry. In the

Financial Services segment, we are also continually expanding our services to include digital and modular services. The aim is for our products to be accessible to all customer groups across all channels within our strategic orientation in the Financial Services segment. Financial Services segment

Collaboration – How does the BMW Group achieve this?

The BMW Group constantly strives for the best results, supporting its employees with the discovery and development of their potential so they are able to remain productive. We support and challenge strong teams with complementary strengths who work together to achieve the best solutions in a complex environment.
We see diversity as an important element of our competitiveness.
Employees and Society The diversity metric defines the share of women in management positions as a key performance indicator and a strategic target variable. The aim is to increase the share of women in management positions at the BMW Group to 22 %

BMW Group employees not only work closely together within the
Company, but also with external partners. The stable relationships that have grown in our partner networks over time are based on the same values as those at the BMW Group. They allow us to maximise our effectiveness and work together to lead the Company to success. This has proven effective in the crisis years, most recently in 2022: our Supply Chains held up and our dealer network remained strong, despite challenging conditions including the shortage of semiconductor components, pandemicrelated lockdowns in China and additional supply bottlenecks resulting from the war in Ukraine.

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Together with our cooperation partners, we realise potential by accessing more expertise and improving our profitability and technology footprint. We continuously expand our collaborations to unlock additional potential for value creation in the Group.

BMW Motorrad continued to pursue its electrification strategy with the successful launch of the BMW CE 04 electric scooter in
March 2022. Furthermore, the all-electric BMW CE 02 concept vehicle provides an outlook on additional offerings in urban mobility. Motorcycles segment

In addition to delivering product substance, we also offer customers a 360˚ approach with an appropriate charging ecosystem.
Customers can charge their vehicles at home, at work and in public places, and can also use our BMW Charging and MINI

Beginning in 2025, we will take the next step in our transformation process with the NEUE KLASSE, which is expected to set standards in electrification, digitalisation and circularity.

The NEUE KLASSE is distinguished by its new cluster architecture
(NCAR), which is entirely focused on BEVs (battery electric vehicles). The sixth generation of our electric drivetrain features a completely new high-voltage storage concept, optimised cell design and improved cell chemistry. These developments result in a roughly 30 % longer range, an up to 30 % shorter charging time, and about 50 % lower manufacturing costs. The new generation of drives will consist of highly scalable modules that can cover the entire range of our products. The BEV-focused vehicle architecture and the new generation of drives and batteries are expected to provide significant gains in efficiency in the
NEUE KLASSE.

Product strategy and the electric future with the
NEUE KLASSE

The BMW Group is consistently implementing the transformation towards all-electric, connected mobility. As early as 2013, the
Company pioneered e-mobility by developing the technology for
“project i” and putting it into series production in the BMW i3 and
BMW i8.

The all-electric vehicle model initiative was launched in 2020, and by the end of 2022, seven models had been launched: the
BMW iX3 1, the BMW iX 1, the BMW i4 1, the BMW i7 1, the BMW iX1 1, the long-wheelbase version of the BMW 3 Series for the Chinese market and the MINI Cooper SE1. With 215,752 2 fully electrified vehicles, the number of deliveries more than doubled in reporting year 2022 (2021: 103,854 2 vehicles/+107.7 %). BMW M is also working on various forms of electrification. In 2021, the brand launched a performance automobile with an all-electric drive system, the BMW i4 M501, followed by the BMW iX M601 in

The BMW i5 sedan and the long-wheelbase version of the
BMW iX1 for the Chinese market will be available for sale in 2023.
Rolls-Royce, the world’s leading brand in the luxury class, will launch its first all-electric vehicle, the Spectre 1. Automotive segment This means the BMW Group will have at least one all-electric model in nearly all major model series on the roads in 2023. The share of electrified vehicles in total deliveries is expected to exceed 30 % by as early as 2025. Intelligent vehicle basis of this initiative.

Catena-X

As a co-founder and member of Catena-X, the BMW Group

is part of a collaborative, open data ecosystem that connects suppliers, automobile manufacturers and recycling

companies digitally. Catena-X aims to facilitate a cohesive

digital flow of information across the entire value chain.

Catena-X users are connected using a data-driven approach

based on European values and principles (GAIA-X and

IDSA) and common standards, enabling different applications along the entire automotive value chain for the first

time. The sovereign exchange of data allows each company

to retain control of its own data.

Catena-X is currently focused on the circular economy,

resilience, profitability and customer experience. A database is being created to ensure the transparency of

sustainability and regulatory requirements such as the

carbon footprint. Uniform standards and processes will

make it possible to gradually take on additional partners

for cross-company collaborations, regardless of their

size. Membership in the Catena-X network could play a

larger role in the supplier nomination process in the future in order to ensure consistency in the supply chain. The

Catena-X network currently has 133 members (status:

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

As part of the revolutionary user experience concept for the
NEUE KLASSE, the BMW Panoramic Vision introduces a new generation of head-up displays that provide customers with a projection of comprehensive, relevant information across the entire windscreen. This reinterpretation of driver orientation creates a new user interface and increases safety on the road by the “eyes on the road and hands on the wheel” approach. The
NEUE KLASSE also features a newly defined electric/electronic architecture for hardware and software and a new module system for automated driving. This is expected to establish the basis for generation of an increasing proportion of sales through individually configurable and bookable features over the vehicle’s life cycle.

Another aim of the NEUE KLASSE is to achieve a new level of sustainability across the entire vehicle life cycle. To this end, the
BMW Group focuses on the concept of circularity, using an increasing proportion of secondary materials. Closing material cycles

Group
— Profit before tax (EBT)
— Number of employees at the end of the year
— Share of women in management positions (in %)

Automotive segment
— Profit before financial result as a percentage of revenues

(EBIT margin; in %)

— Return on capital employed (RoCE; in %)
— Deliveries (in units)
— Share of electrified vehicles in deliveries

(in %; until 2022)

— Share of all-electric vehicles in deliveries (in %; from 2023,

see Performance Management)

— CO2 emissions EU new vehicle fleet (in g CO2/km)
— CO2 emissions per vehicle produced (in tonnes)

Motorcycles segment
— Profit before financial result as a percentage of revenues

(EBIT margin; in %)

— Return on capital employed (RoCE; in %)
— Deliveries (in units)

Financial Services segment
— Return on equity (RoE; in %)

Production of vehicles for the NEUE KLASSE will get underway in 2025 at the newly constructed BMW Group plant in Debrecen and then be expanded to the BMW Group plant in Munich from
2026 onwards. Additional volumes will be achieved by integrating NEUE KLASSE into the BMW Group plant in San Luis Potosí from 2027. All-electric vehicles are expected to make up more than half of the BMW Group’s total deliveries by 2030. The
Rolls-Royce brand is set to become fully electric by 2030, and

measuring performance. The resulting target system is therefore a key instrument for anchoring strategy throughout the Company.
For corporate management purposes, the strategic targets are backed by effective performance indicators.

Long-range corporate planning for the Company as a whole and its segments is geared towards the structure of the BMW Group target system. In this way, the targets set out in the planning are regularly compared with the BMW Group’s strategic goals.

Once approved by the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board, the target amounts decided upon within the strategic target system become the basis of planning for the current reporting year and for the target agreements with BMW Group key performance indicators defined in DRS 20, which also form the basis for performance management in the BMW Group.
Performance Management

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Performance management
The BMW Group’s performance management system follows a value-based approach that focuses on profitability, consistent company growth, value enhancement for capital providers, sustainability, climate protection and job security. Capital is considered to be employed profitably when the amount of profit generated on a sustained basis exceeds the cost of equity and debt capital. This strategy also secures the desired degree of corporate autonomy in the long term.

The BMW Group’s performance management system is based on a multilayered structure. Operational performance is managed primarily at segment level. In order to influence long-term corporate performance, additional key performance figures are taken into account within the management system at Group level. In this context, the value added serves as one of several indicators to measure the contribution made to enterprise value during the financial year. This aspiration to add value is measured at both Group and segment level by means of the key performance indicators. The link between value added and the relevant value drivers is presented in a simplified form below.

BMW Group – value drivers

Value added

Return on capital
(RoCE or
RoE)

Return on sales

Capital turnover

Cost of capital

Expenses

Revenues

Profit

Capital employed

Average weighted average cost of capital

Managing sustainability
The BMW Group’s long-term corporate strategy is determined by the Board of Management. Responsibility for implementing the Group’s sustainability goals also lies with the full Board.
Significant decisions are therefore also evaluated from the point of view of sustainability. This ensures that sustainability issues are systematically integrated in decision-making processes and to compensation at top management levels.

As part of the procedures for managing sustainability on an integrated basis at corporate level, a Group target system has been created which has been implemented for each of the Board members’ areas of responsibility. The BMW Group has set itself the target of decarbonising its vehicle fleet by an average of 40 % overall over the entire life cycle by 2030, compared to the base year 2019. In this context, specific targets have been set for the scope of the vehicle’s use phase, production and supply chain
( Position, Carbon emissions). Based on these targets, specific carbon requirements for each vehicle project are derived, digitally managed and monitored.

An integrated approach to target management ensures that the
BMW Group’s vehicle projects make a positive contribution towards achieving the sustainability targets that have been set.
Furthermore, the BMW Group will increase targets for the use of secondary raw materials in the long term. Non-financial performance indicators such as carbon emissions and, in future, secondary raw materials quotas are therefore key performance indicators for all new vehicle projects. The overall result is a cohesive management model across all aspects of the business.
This ensures that financial aspects are taken into consideration and the most effective measures are prioritised for implementation in all areas. GRI Index: 2-13

Managing operational performance at segment level
At segment level, operational performance is managed using an aggregated approach based on returns on capital. Depending on the business model, the segments are measured on the basis of return on total capital or return on equity.

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Return on capital employed (RoCE) is used for the Automotive and Motorcycles segments and return on equity (RoE) for the
Financial Services segment. These indicators combine a wide range of relevant economic information, such as profitability (return on sales) and capital efficiency (capital turnover) to measure segment performance and the development of enterprise value.

Automotive segment
The most comprehensive key performance indicator used for the
Automotive segment is RoCE, which provides information on the profitability of capital employed and business operations. Value driver analyses are used to interpret the causes of a change in
RoCE and derive suitable measures to influence its development.

The capital employed items taken into account reflect the focus of operational segment management. Capital employed is calculated as the sum of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and net working capital, the latter comprising inventories and trade receivables less trade payables. The amount of capital employed increased as compared to 2021 in light of the acquisition of further shares in BMW Brilliance and the resulting to the takeover of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets as well as the capitalisation of reacquired rights in conjunction with the purchase price allocation. The RoCE will be impacted temporarily by the higher capital base as well as the related amortisation expense expected to be recorded.

The strategic target for RoCE is 18 %. Value is enhanced for
BMW AG shareholders when the RoCE exceeds the cost of capital.

Return on capital employed (Automotive segment) 1

Profit before financial result in € million

Average capital employed in € million

Return on capital employed in %

Automotive

Due to the special significance of the RoCE for the BMW Group, additional key figures are used to manage the Automotive Segment which have a considerable influence on the return on investment and subsequently on the success of the segment as a whole. These value drivers include deliveries and the operating return on sales (EBIT margin: segment profit before financial result as a percentage of segment revenues) as a key figure for profitability in the segment.

increasing focus on fully electric vehicles and their increasing importance for the Company’s ambitious CO2 targets. Outlook

RoCE Automotive

or Motorcycles

Profit before

financial result

Average

capital employed

Furthermore, the Automotive segment manages its compliance with fleet carbon emissions requirements in regulated markets.
In this context, it also reports on the share of electrified vehicles in total deliveries. Performance Indicators As compliance with regulatory requirements is a significant factor in the BMW Group’s success, business decisions relating to vehicle projects also take targets for fleet carbon emissions into account. Managing sustainability Starting with the financial year 2023, the performance indicator “share of electrified vehicles in deliveries” will be replaced by the indicator “share of fully electric vehicles in deliveries”. The reason for the adjustment is the BMW Group’s

Motorcycles segment
The Motorcycles segment is largely managed according to the same logic applied to the Automotive segment. The principal key performance indicator is the return on capital employed (RoCE).
The strategic RoCE target set for the Motorcycles segment is

The main value drivers are the deliveries and the operating return on sales (EBIT margin: segment profit before financial result as a percentage of segment revenues) as the key performance indicator for segment profitability.

Return on capital employed (Motorcycles segment) 2

Profit before financial result in € million

Average capital employed in € million

Return on capital employed in %

Motorcycles

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Return on equity (Financial Services segment)

Profit before tax in € million

Average equity capital in € million

Return on equity in %

Financial Services

Financial Services segment
The performance of the Financial Services segment is measured on the basis of the return on equity (RoE), a key performance indicator commonly used in the banking sector. Within the
BMW Group, RoE is defined as segment profit before tax, divided by the average amount of equity capital in the Financial Services segment. The target is a return on equity of at least 14 %.

The information provided by these key performance indicators at Group level is complemented by the two financial performance indicators of pre-tax return on sales and value added. Value added, as a highly aggregated performance indicator, also provides an insight into capital efficiency and the (opportunity) cost of capital required to generate Group profit. A positive value added means that a return on investment above the cost of capital has been achieved.

RoE Financial Services

Profit before

Average

equity

Strategic management at Group level
Strategic management and the measurement of its financial impact are coordinated primarily at Group level in conjunction with the long-term corporate plan. Group profit/loss before tax provides a comprehensive measure of the Group’s overall corporate performance after consolidation effects and enables a transparent comparison over time. Other key performance indicators at Group level are the size of the workforce at the yearend as well as the share of women in management positions.
By 2025, the BMW Group aims to increase the share of women

Value added Group

earnings amount –

cost of capital

earnings amount –

(cost of capital rate x capital employed)

Value added Group

Earnings amount Cost of capital (equity + debt capital)

Value added Group

in € million

BMW Group

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Capital employed comprises the amount of Group equity and pension provisions as well as the financial liabilities of the Automotive and Motorcycles segments employed on average at the end of each of the last five quarters. The earnings amount corresponds to Group profit/loss before tax, adjusted for interest expense incurred in conjunction with the pension provisions and on the financial liabilities of the Automotive and Motorcycles segments (profit/loss before interest expense and tax). The cost of capital is the minimum rate of return expected by capital providers in return for the capital employed. Since capital employed comprises an equity capital (e.g. share capital) and a debt capital element (e.g. bonds), the overall cost of capital is determined on the basis of the weighted average rates for equity and debt capital, measured using standard market procedures. The pre-tax average weighted cost of capital for the BMW Group in 2022 was
12 %, unchanged from the previous year.

In order to determine the internal rate of return, risk-adjusted cost of capital rates are based on the average of actual rates in recent years. In light of the long-term nature of product and investment decisions, the following internal rates of return are used in conjunction with segment management:

Value-based management for project decisions
Operational business in the Automotive and Motorcycles segments is largely shaped by the life-cycle-dependent character of investment projects that have a substantial influence on future performance. Project-related decisions are therefore a crucial element of financial management in the BMW Group. Project decisions are based on calculations derived from the expected cash flows of each individual project. Calculations are made for the complete term of a project, incorporating future years in which the project is expected to generate cash flows. Project decisions are taken on the basis of net present value and the internal rate of return calculated for the project. The net present value indicates the extent to which the project will be able to generate future net cash inflows over and above the cost of capital. A project with a positive net present value enhances future value added and therefore results in an increase in enterprise value.
The project’s internal rate of return measures the average return on the capital employed in the project. For all project decisions, the project criteria and long-term impact on periodic results are measured and incorporated in the long-term Group plan. This approach enables an analysis of the impact of project decisions on periodic earnings and rates of return for each year during the term of the project.

in %

Automotive

Motorcycles

Financial Services

Board of Management remuneration
Performance criteria for the variable remuneration paid to members of the Board of Management are based on the key strategic targets and performance indicators. More information can be

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Within the framework of the implementation of the European
Green Deal and the Action Plan “Financing Sustainable Growth”, transparency and provide an objective benchmark for capital market participants in order to channel capital flows towards environmentally sustainable economic activities.

Essentially, an economic activity can only be classified as sustainable if it substantially contributes to one of the following six environmental objectives:

III.

Climate change mitigation
Climate change adaptation
Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources

IV. Transition to a circular economy
Pollution prevention and control
Protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems

This contribution is based on fulfilment of specific predetermined requirements. Moreover, no other environmental objective may be significantly harmed as a result of performing the activity and the Company involved must observe minimum safeguards, among them compliance with human rights.

the Delegated Acts, companies such as the BMW Group were required to report the Taxonomy-eligible proportion of their revenues, capital expenditures and operating expenditures for
Environmental Objectives I and II for the first time in the previous year. Since reporting year 2022, the reporting requirements have been expanded to include Taxonomy-aligned proportions for both these environmental objectives. The reporting scope is expected to be expanded to the environmental objectives III to
VI starting with the reporting year 2024.

Our holistic understanding of sustainability climate-neutral continent by 2050. As a company aspiring to achieve net zero across its entire value chain by no later than
2050, we welcome all initiatives that serve this objective. As part of this commitment, the BMW Group had already set ambitious, science-based targets for all three scopes in 2020, which it aims to achieve by 2030 (base year 2019). These goals were validated by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). Each year, the
BMW Group Report informs about the level of progress. Strategy

In the coming years, the significant growth in electromobility will imply that the majority of carbon emissions will be generated within the upstream value chain, rather than primarily in the use phase. Without the anticipated set of measures to reduce carbon emissions generated within the BMW Group supply chain, these emissions would already exceed actual carbon emissions in the use phase prior to 2030. Strategy, Production and Supplier
Network, Carbon emissions Accordingly, the BMW Group is taking a holistic approach to achieving its sustainability-related targets and is committed to considering carbon emissions over the entire life cycle of the vehicles produced. Carbon emissions However, for the economic activities that are relevant to the carbon emissions during the use phase that are attributable to low-emissions (until 2025) and emissions-free drive systems.
Indirect carbon emissions, for instance those produced when generating charging current or during the energy-intensive production of high-voltage batteries, are not taken into account in in-house production to the extent that they serve to manufacture
Taxonomy-aligned products or to the extent that they are explicitly included in the description of an activity. The deficit of this approach is shown by the example that increasing the energy efficiency of paint shop processes also reduces carbon emissions in in-house production when a conventionally powered vehicle is painted. In light of the BMW Group’s selected economic activities, its sustainability efforts in this regard are not, or are only

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Explanatory comments on reporting procedures
Explanatory comments on reporting procedures for the reporting year 2022, we are reporting on Taxonomy alignment for the first time in relation to Environmental Objective I “Climate change mitigation” and Environmental Objective II “Climate change adaptation”, in addition to reporting on Taxonomy eligibility.
Taxonomy eligibility is an initial indicator of the maximum environmental sustainability potential of economic activities as hand, serves as an indicator of an organisation’s transformation towards environmentally sustainable economic activities.

An economic activity is to be seen as Taxonomy-eligible if it is described in the Delegated Acts relating to one of the six environmental objectives, regardless of whether that economic activity meets the technical screening criteria stipulated in those
Delegated Acts. Following an analysis, the BMW Group’s business activities can best be summarised under the following economic activities1:

— Economic activity 3.3 “Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport” including the production of passenger cars and motorcycles.

— Economic activity 6.5 “Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles” including the acquisition, financing, lease and operation of automobiles and motorcycles.

Based on the descriptions of the two economic activities listed for Environmental Objective I “Climate change mitigation” and in consideration of the additional clarification by the EU Commission regarding the Taxonomy eligibility of vehicles with com bustion engines under economic activity 3.3, a large part of the BMW Group’s business model falls within the scope of the

Only the sale of parts and components, such as after-sales business excluding the provision of repair services, the supply of components for production to BMW Brilliance up to and including

Explanatory comments on reporting procedures

Taxonomy eligibility

Substantial contribution

DNSH

Minimum safeguards

Economic activity is taxonomy­aligned

Economic activities are described in the Delegated Act on environmental objectives
1 and 2

Fulfilment of technical screening criteria:
substantial contribution to at least one of the environmental objectives

Economic activity does not cause significant harm to other environmental objectives

Company establishes minimum safeguard procedures for human rights, bribery and corruption, taxation and fair competition

insurance services performed by our non-automotive Financial
Services segment, are not described as economic activities in the Delegated Regulation and are therefore not Taxonomy-eligible.

Consequently, in order to determine the Taxonomy alignment of the two aforementioned economic activities in the reporting year, they must be reviewed against the technical screening criteria relevant to them:

1) They make a substantial contribution to the fulfilment of the environmental objective based on the specific carbon emissions for the vehicles in question.

2) They do not cause any significant harm to other environmental objectives based on the specific requirements for each relevant economic activity (“Do no significant harm” or “DNSH”).

It must also be ensured that the organisation carrying out the economic activities has established minimum safeguards aimed at guaranteeing compliance with human rights in particular and also minimum safeguards relating to bribery, corruption, taxation and fair competition.

Substantial contribution
The BMW Group has reviewed its contribution to the environmental objectives “Climate change mitigation” and “Climate change adaptation” for the reporting year. Economic activity 3.3 and economic activity 6.5 both make a substantial contribution to the achievement of Environmental Objective I “Climate change mitigation” due to the manufacture, financing and leasing of low-emissions (PHEV < 50 g CO2/km WLTP until 2025) and zero-emissions vehicles (BEV and motorcycles with 0g CO2/km).
The contribution of the two economic activities to the second environ mental objective “Climate change adaptation” was subsumed under environmental objective I “Climate change mitigation” for reasons of materiality.

(in particular with regard to nuclear energy and gaseous fossil fuels) are not relevant to the
BMW Group. Accordingly, specific reporting tables for these activities are not included.

low carbon technologies for transport” differently for Environmental Objective I “Climate change mitigation” and Environmental Objective II “Climate change adaptation”. For the purposes of consistent reporting on the Taxonomy eligibility of vehicle production, the BMW Group follows the description given for Environmental Objective I, given that Taxonomy-eligible vehicle production as listed for Environmental Objective II is a subset of Taxonomy-eligible vehicle production for
Environmental Objective I.

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Climate change mitigation

Protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems

Climate change adaptation

Pollution protection and control

Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources

Transition to a circular economy

In order to identify the specific carbon emissions of PHEV that are not determined in line with Regulation (EU) 2019/631 (USA, China, etc.), assumptions were made based on the worst-case value for that vehicle model, even though these emissions may have been lower in reality.

Avoidance of significant harm
Compliance with the DNSH criteria was reviewed in the reporting year for the five additional environmental objectives, based in each case on the specific requirements for economic activity 3.3
“Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport” and economic activity 6.5 “Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles”.

The vehicle portfolio for economic activity 6.5 includes
BMW Group vehicles and vehicles from other manufacturers. As no data are available regarding the relevant attributes of these third-party products, it is not currently possible to make a comprehensive assessment in relation to the DNSH criteria. For this reason, these vehicles are not currently reported as Taxonomyaligned.

Climate change adaptation

A robust climate risk and vulnerability assessment is required for both economic activity 3.3 and economic activity 6.5 to determine that they do not cause significant harm to Environmental Objective II. It considers the physical climate risks at all key BMW Group production sites as well as any potential damage that may occur as a result of climate change based on long-term climate projection scenarios* up to 2034 and 2050. Moreover, we consider potential natural hazards at all of our direct supplier locations in order to adequately take supply risks into account when selecting and evaluating suppliers. Adaptive solutions to mitigate risks are drawn up and implemented as appropriate based on

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

the results of this risk analysis and in consultation with site representatives. For further information, see Climate-related Risks and Opportunities.

The DNSH requirements for Environmental Objective II are fulfilled for economic activities 3.3 and 6.5.

Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources and protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems

In order to establish that no significant harm is caused to Environmental Objectives III and VI, it is necessary to perform a comprehensive risk analysis that looks at the preservation and protection of environmental resources for economic activity 3.3 (in both cases, not relevant for economic activity 6.5). In this context, the
BMW Group carries out environmental impact assessments in accordance with Directive 2011/92/EU during the construction of new and expansion of existing sites within the EU that also take account of water and biodiversity. At locations outside the EU, the BMW Group carries out an environmental impact assessment based on EU requirements. Moreover, a certified environmental management system in accordance with ISO 14001 has been implemented at all BMW Group production sites and all local legal requirements are met. Resource Management at all locations

The DNSH requirements for Environmental Objectives III and VI are fulfilled for economic activity 3.3.

Transition to a circular economy

The requirements for both economic activities of the BMW Group to do no significant harm to Environmental Objective IV differ for each stage of the value chain. We fulfil these requirements during the manufacturing process for BMW Group vehicles (economic activity 3.3) by, for example, using secondary raw materials in our products, designing products to facilitate their recycling, managing waste at our production sites in a way that prioritises recycling over disposal as well as registering substances of concern systematically along the entire supply chain. With regard to the use phase and recycling of BMW Group vehicles (economic activity 6.5), we have set up appropriate processes to comply with recycling requirements and established measures for managing waste during maintenance and at the end of the life cycle.
All these criteria also form part of our comprehensive approach to the Transition to a circular economy.

The DNSH requirements for Environmental Objective IV are fulfilled for economic activities 3.3 and 6.5.

Pollution prevention and control

The requirements to do no significant harm to Environmental
Objective V differ considerably for economic activity 3.3 and economic activity 6.5.

With regard to economic activity 3.3, the BMW Group has established corresponding processes which aim to monitor and ensure legal compliance with any prohibitions and limits relating to the use of chemical substances at vehicle level. All substances used by the BMW Group are in compliance with national and European laws. The use of any other substances, such as those classified under the CLP Regulation which go beyond current prohibitions established in applicable legislation (including the REACH

Regulation), is reviewed. Substitutes are sought for substances if their use cannot be avoided owing to current societal needs, taking into account factors such as economic and technical requirements.

Never the less, it is not possible to meet all criteria to do no significant harm to Environmental Objective V in the case of economic activity 6.5. Current PHEV models under 50 g CO2/km
WLTP offered by the BMW Group and other manufacturers may
However, manufacturer specifications for air pollutant emissions in real driving conditions (real driving emissions, RDE) cannot be with reference to table 2 in the notes to the Clean Vehicles Directive, due to potentially extreme driving situations. All PHEVs in the vehicle portfolio for economic activity 6.5 must therefore be considered as not Taxonomy-aligned, even if they meet these specifications in everyday driving situations.

For the remaining BEV in the BMW Group’s vehicle portfolio, further deductions have to be made in the context of economic activity 6.5. In the case of individual models in light of the requirements for rolling resistance coefficients for tyres and in particular the external rolling noise of tyres. Owing to the limited availability of data, the eligibility of the models concerned is calculated in a simplified manner based on the tyres approved for these models, weighted by their purchase volumes and take rates.

The DNSH requirements for Environmental Objective V are fulfilled for economic activity 3.3; however, not all are fulfilled for economic activity 6.5.

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Minimum safeguards
In addition to making sure that no significant harm is caused to the other environmental objectives, it must also be ensured that the organisation carrying out the economic activities has established minimum safeguards. These require the implementation of processes to ensure compliance with due diligence obligations both within an organisation and in the stages of the upstream and downstream value chain that have been outsourced. Specifically, this refers to compliance with human rights and regulations on bribery, corruption, taxation and fair competition. In its
Policy statement on respect for human rights and environment-related standards, the BMW Group has, among other things, committed to compliance with the following standards for minimum safeguards as defined in Article 18 of the Taxonomy Regulation:
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, which we signed back in 2001.
Purchasing and supplier network, Compliance and human rights

expenditure for Environmental Objective II “Climate change adaptation” are a subset of the values for Environmental Objective I “Climate change mitigation”. This approach avoids double counting of revenues, capital expenditure and operating expenditure when determining the KPI in the numerator across multiple economic activities.

This allocator is used for capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment (including right-of-use assets), intangible assets and expenditure on research and development for economic activity 3.3, and for capital expenditure on leased products for economic activity 6.5. For operating expenditure, the formula is also applied to non-capitalised development costs.

In the case of capital expenditure, all Taxonomy-eligible expenditure is allocated to the two economic activities 3.3 and 6.5. In most cases, values from financial data were allocated directly to the economic activities for all three performance indicators, based for example on the drivetrain or the vehicle model. In the remaining cases, an allocation mechanism was used for each economic activity and each performance indicator. For Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure, the allocator is based on long-term Taxonomy-aligned revenues generated from the automobile and motorcycle business for economic activity 3.3 and on the Taxonomy-aligned financing volume for new customers in the current financial year for economic activity 6.5:

For other operating expenditure (non-capitalised right-of-use assets (lessee), maintenance/repair expenses) relating to economic activity 3.3, the allocator is based on the Taxonomy-aligned revenues generated from the automobile and motorcycle business in the reporting period.

Interpretation of the performance indicators for reporting year 2022
The following overview tables summarise the performance indicators revenues, capital expenditure and operating expenditure resulting from Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned economic activities of the BMW Group.

The minimum safeguard requirements are met.

— BMW Group perspective

Please refer to the remarks in the glossary for the definition and calculation of the Taxonomy-specific performance indicators revenues, capital expenditure and operating expenditure. Glossary

The proportion of revenues, capital expenditure and operating expenditure relating to eligible and non-eligible economic activities are shown in each case as an aggregate percentage for the
BMW Group. Only Taxonomy-eligible revenues, capital expenditure and operating expenditure as listed for Environmental
Objective I “Climate change mitigation” are disclosed, given that
Taxonomy-eligible revenues, capital expenditure and operating

— Allocator for economic activity 3.3: (BEV + PHEV (<50g)) x

Automotive segment revenues (2023–2028)

— Allocator for economic activity 6.5: (DNSH alignment factor x BEV) x proportion of financing volume attributable to new customer contracts (2022)

For capital expenditure, the allocator is based on detailed longterm corporate planning for the next six years, as approved each year by the Board of Management and Supervisory Board.

Taxonomy-aligned revenues of the BMW Group amounted to
€ 15,705 million, corresponding to 11 % of total Group revenues. The Taxonomy-aligned share of capital expenditure was 21 % (€ 5,100 million). Operating expenditure incurred for Taxonomy-aligned economic activities amounted to
€ 1,661 million, corresponding to almost 29 % of Taxonomyeligible operating expenditure.

— Economic activity 3.3, “Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport”
The Taxonomy-aligned share of revenues generated by the
Automotive and Motorcycle segments corresponded to 10.7 %
(economic activity 3.3 “Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport”) of total Group revenues. As a percentage of external revenues of the two segments, the Taxonomyaligned share rises to 14 %. Segment information

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment of the BMW Group were more than 19 % Taxonomyaligned. This proportion more than doubles to 43 % in relation to additions recorded by the Automotive and Motorcycle segments. The latter highlights the high proportion of Taxonomyaligned capital expenditure of the Automotive segment.

— Economic activity 6.5, “Transport by motorbikes, passenger

cars and light commercial vehicles”
The Taxonomy-aligned shares for the three performance indicators were at a low single-digit level for the Financial
Services segment. This was due to the fact that – compared to the Automotive segment – there is a time lag before the effects of the vehicle fleet electrification ramp-up are felt in the financing and leasing lines of business. A further reason is the stricter DNSH requirements for economic activity 6.5, in particular those relating to environmental objective V
“Pollution prevention and control”, which lead to the exclusion of all PHEV and a significant restriction in the recognition
Section “Avoidance of significant harm”). In addition, with economic activity 6.5, third-party brands can only be included in the vehicle portfolio under restrictive conditions, such as for the purpose of assigning tyre categories or WLTP emissions values as part of the process of testing compliance with the DNSH criteria. As a result, no specific deductions can be allocated, with the consequence that the models concerned must be excluded from the scope of reporting on Taxonomy alignment.

The growing share of zero-emissions vehicles, the development and production methods used, and – where applicable – contributions made to other environmental objectives as yet to be defined are expected to lead to an increase in Taxonomy-aligned revenues, capital expenditure and operating expenditure. Due to the high level of investment in the transformation of our business activities, for example in the electrification of our vehicles and research into alternative drivetrains, these economic activities have the potential to become Taxonomy-aligned over time. Overall, we anticipate that the proportion of Taxonomy-aligned economic activities will steadily rise as a result of the increasing electrification of our product portfolio. Strategy

The contribution of the two economic activities considered for
Environmental Objective II is subsumed in the contribution reported for Environmental Objective I. Regardless of the taxonomy criteria, the BMW Group regularly and comprehensively addresses risks arising from climate change and their potential impact on its locations and supply chains.
DNSH adaptation to climate change, TCFD climate risks

As the overview tables from Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178 do not provide a detailed picture of the BMW Group’s business model per economic activity, the following table provides detailed information about the three performance indicators for both economic activities.

Voluntary additional information on the Taxonomy-aligned share per economic activity*

Revenues 2022

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport (3.3)

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles (6.5)

Total

Capital expenditure 2022

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport (3.3)

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles (6.5)

Total

Operating expenditure 2022

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport (3.3)

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles (6.5)

Total

in € million

in € million

in %

by activity

of which
Taxonomy-aligned

Proportion

by activity

of which
Taxonomy-aligned

Proportion

by activity

of which
Taxonomy-aligned

Proportion

* Taxonomy-aligned share calculated with denominator as the sum of Taxonomy-aligned, non-Taxonomy-aligned and Taxonomy-capable values of the respective economic activity.

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Contextual KPI information related to Taxonomy-aligned economic activities

in € million

Revenues

Sales of products, related goods and revenue of service contracts

Revenues related to financial services

Total

Capital expenditure

Economic activity 3.3

Property, plant and equipment 1

Development costs

Leased products

Total

Economic activity 6.5

Property, plant and equipment 1

Development costs

Leased products

Total

Total

Operating expenditure

Economic activity 3.3

Development costs – not capitalised 2

Right-of-use assets (lessee) – not capitalised

Maintenance/repair expenses

Total

Economic activity 6.5

Development costs – not capitalised 2

Right-of-use assets (lessee) – not capitalised

Maintenance/repair expenses

Total

Total

Revenue includes small amounts from Taxonomy-aligned activities related to the BMW Group’s Company car programme.
These Company cars are generally transferred to the BMW Group’s external sales programme within twelve months after a short period of in-house use.

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

CapEx plan for Environmental Objective I
“Climate change mitigation”
A CapEx plan is required to be drawn up for capital expenditure and operating expenditure that expand Taxonomy-aligned economic activities or allow Taxonomy- eligible economic activities to become Taxonomy-aligned. This plan has been approved by the Board of Management of BMW AG and covers a seven-year period (2022–2028). The CapEx plan covers capital expenditure and operating expenditure for the reporting year and planned capital expenditure and operating expenditure (only non-capitalised development costs) for 2023–2028 for economic activities
3.3 and 6.5. The selected future period corresponds to the detailed long-term corporate planning of the BMW Group and contains various investment measures with different implementation times (e.g. electrification of the vehicle fleet, model revisions, structural investments in production sites). The CapEx plan earmarks € 55,989 million for economic activity 3.3
(with € 6,081 million attributable to financial year 2022) and
€ 16,520 million for economic activity 6.5 (with € 507 million attributable to financial year 2022).

CapEx plan for transformation into or expansion of Taxonomy-aligned economic activities

in € million

Economic activities

Code(s)

Total

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles

Total

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Revenues

Substantial contribution criteria 2

DNSH criteria
(“Do no significantly harm”)

in € million

Economic activities

A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities
( Taxonomy-aligned)

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles

Turnover of environmentally sustainable activities
(Taxonomy-aligned)

A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles

Turnover of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)

Total A.1 + A.2

Turnover of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities (B)

Total (A+B)

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Capital expenditure

in € million

Economic activities

A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities
( Taxonomy-aligned)

Substantial contribution criteria 2

DNSH criteria
(“Do no significantly harm”)

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles

Capital expenditure of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned)

A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles

Capital expenditure of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities
(not Taxonomy-aligned activities)

Total A.1 + A.2

Capital expenditure of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities (B)

Total (A+B)

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Operating expenditure

in € million

Economic activities

A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities
( Taxonomy-aligned)

Substantial contribution criteria 2

DNSH criteria
(“Do no significantly harm”)

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles

Operating expenditure of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned)

A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)

Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport

Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles

Operating expenditure of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities
(not Taxonomy-aligned activities)

Total A.1 + A.2

Operating expenditure of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities

Total (A+B)

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

PRODUCTS

Innovation, Digitali sation and Customer
Orientation

industry, which is being driven forward at a considerable pace with this new generation of vehicles. The BMW Group has already demonstrated the great potential of the circular economy principle with its BMW i Vision Circular. The BMW i Vision Dee now illustrates the impact that digital technology will have on driving pleasure in years to come.

The BMW Group’s innovations are characterised by their consistent orientation towards customer needs and the use of digital solutions. During the year under report, numerous innovations again resulted in processes being optimised, products improved and new technologies introduced to make everyday life easier for our customers.

Vision UI/UX: user interaction and the user interface of the future
With its BMW i Vision Dee concept vehicle, the BMW Group is demonstrating how interaction between people and automobiles could look like going forward. “Dee” is a sporty, elegant mid-size sedan that epitomises the core values of the BMW brand in a new, reduced design language. It is the most recent affirmation of our digital expertise and stands for Digital Emotional Experience. “Dee” is yet another milestone on the road to the NEUE
KLASSE and forms an innovative link between everyday reality and the virtual world. As of 2025, with the NEUE KLASSE the
BMW Group will be taking a major technological leap forward and creating innovative drivetrain and digital modules for all relevant classes of vehicle across the BMW model range. Electrification, digitalisation and circularity are the key elements that signify the transformation currently taking place within the automotive

MINI Concept Aceman
The Concept Aceman marks the dawn of a new era for the MINI brand. The crossover model is a preview of a completely new type of vehicle that is destined to occupy the position between the
MINI Cooper and the MINI Countryman in the model family going forward. This concept vehicle reflects how MINI is reinventing itself to be part of an all-electric future and what the brand stands for by creating an electrified go-kart eeling, digital features for all the senses and a keen focus on minimising its ecological footprint.

“Charismatic Simplicity” – the new design language – pares back the look of the MINI models of the future to the essentials. The exterior of the MINI Concept Aceman features a prominent front end with an octagonal, closed, illuminated radiator grille element, an athletic shoulder section and a powerful rear fitted with vertically arranged taillights. The interior is greatly reduced and focuses on a round OLED display that enables the driver to personalise the sound, interaction, projection and light via three
“Experience Modes”. Like all future MINI models, the MINI Concept Aceman is designed completely without leather, is practically chrome-free and features a variety of sustainable materials.

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Digitalisation – an opportunity for innovation and customer orientation
Digitalisation is a key factor when it comes to keeping the vehicle
“fresh” and therefore up to date throughout its life cycle. Since the launch of Operating System 7 in 2018, a Remote Software
Upgrade (i.e. updating the vehicle’s software remotely) has been available for BMW vehicles. In addition to its remote software upgrades, the Group is continually releasing new functions and features. Since autumn 2022, for example, a service for conveniently paying parking fees has been available in BMW vehicles with Operating Systems 7 and 8 in Germany and Austria – and other countries are set to follow. Upon arriving in a parking zone, the vehicle automatically detects whether the service is available at that location and displays the payment option accordingly.

BMW Theatre Screen

The BMW Theatre Screen is much more than just a screen

fitted in the rear of the new BMW 7 Series: it raises the bar in terms of in-car entertainment and creates a cinema- like

entertainment experience for back-seat passengers.

During a journey, the 31.3-inch (79.5 cm) display can

stream popular apps via the vehicle’s 5G connectivity and

pre-installed Amazon Fire TV (depending on the country-specific Fire TV offering; in China, Huawei and Iqiyi).

With “Functions-on-Demand”, additional functions can also be bought in, long after the vehicle has been purchased, or even booked for a specific period.

The vehicle as a digital experience
In 2021, the BMW Group launched its Operating System 8, featuring a new display and control system. Since then, every new
BMW model has been equipped with this flexible, scalable infotainment operating system. Currently, the latest BMW 7 Series is presenting the full capabilities of Operating System 8, ranging from “Augmented View” in the information display to a genuine cinema experience with the “BMW Theatre Screen”. The “My
Modes” function can be used to create a holistic user experience within the vehicle by changing vehicle features as well as displays and interior ambience, depending on the “My Mode” selected.
The My Mode “Digital Art” feature brings digital art to the BMW
Curved Display for the first time.

One key advantage of BMW Operating System 8 is its scalability across all classes of vehicle. Since its launch, the system has been rolled out across the compact, mid-size and luxury classes and systematically enhanced in line with customer demand. The focus is on new entertainment offerings such as the integration of AirConsole and the expansion to include third-party apps via the Faurecia Aptoide app store.

Digitalisation also enables innovations, simplifications and advances outside the vehicle. With the My BMW App and the MINI
App, which are now being used by over nine million customers worldwide on their smartphones, it is possible, for example, to plan travel routes, request information on the vehicle’s condition, or control the charging process.

Software expertise at the BMW Group
Twenty years ago, the BMW Group began developing its own software with the founding of BMW Car IT. Since then, the Company has continued to expand its teams of developers to form a global network. Beginning with the Ulm site in southern Germany, its software expertise has been bolstered by the joint ventures

Remote software upgrades*

The software architecture, which has been successively

developed over the last 15 years, enables BMW to install

software on all control units in the vehicle’s electrical

system within a matter of minutes. Over 30 BMW models

worldwide can now be upgraded using this method. The

last remote software upgrade in 2022 was already accessible to 3.8 million BMW Group vehicles. The free upgrades

include improvements and feature enhancements in the

areas of infotainment, driving, drivetrain, driver assistance,

convenience and safety.

* The availability and content of remote software upgrades depend on the

country, model, equipment and software version installed.

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Critical TechWorks in Portugal and BA TechWorks in China. Overall, the BMW Group employs more than 8,500 people in IT and software development.

Range of innovative mobility services
Together with the Mercedes-Benz Group, the BMW Group offers mobility services via the YOUR NOW joint venture, which was established in 2019. The range of services provides customers with access to various modes of transport other than their own vehicle.

As Europe’s largest multimodal mobility platform, FREE NOW combines the entire range of various forms of mobility in one app, enabling registered users in European cities to reach their destination both swiftly and according to their needs. Apart from taxi cabs and private ride services, various types of e-scooters as well as car-sharing vehicles can also be booked via the FREE
NOW app. Moreover, FREE NOW consistently promotes the electrification of the current fleet. By 2025, the share of electrically powered trips is projected to increase to 50 % and users are set to travel fully electrically as of 2030. During the year under report, YOUR NOW Holding sold the car-sharing provider SHARE NOW to Stellantis. Car-sharing services from various providers will continue to be offered via FREE NOW.

Since July 2022, the BMW Group’s range of mobility services has been enlarged to include the BMW Add-On Mobility app in cooperation with SIXT. Among other benefits, the app gives BMW and MINI customers prioritised access to rental vehicles in Germany, Belgium and Luxembourg. Furthermore, the BMW Group offers its business customers and fleet operators individualised mobility solutions with a focus on flexible, keyless vehicle use and based on digital, data-driven vehicle management that boosts process efficiency and enhances the customer experience.

The BMW Group’s range of services also includes comprehensive charging solutions for the home, the workplace and on the road.
Expanding charging infrastructure and enabling faster charging

Digital connectivity and automation
Automated functions and digitally connected vehicles can help cut emissions, reduce the risk of accidents and ease traffic congestion. The BMW Group is therefore firmly committed to making further progress in this area – with a clear focus on customer convenience and safety.

The BMW Group has been pooling the development of assistance and automation functions at its Autonomous Driving Campus north of Munich since 2017. It also operates research facilities in both China and the USA, enabling it to include its two largest markets in terms of traffic-related as well as traffic law specifics right from the outset. In order to take the diverse demands placed on automated driving systems into account from the beginning, the BMW Group also has a globally unique driving simulation centre in Munich, making it possible to test driver assistance systems and automated driving functions in a realistic setting.

One of the many successes to come from our development work is the innovative technology toolkit, which is integrated in the
BMW iX¹ as well as in the new BMW 7 Series and is being rolled out successively across the entire range of vehicles. The toolkit excels in terms of its computing power, its highly efficient sensor technology, the continuous improvement of the software via data-driven development and the use of artificial intelligence (AI).
It also forms the basis for our upcoming automated features, including a highly automated Level 3 function for the new BMW

When it comes to developing the next generation of software solutions for automated driving, the BMW Group has been collaborating with Qualcomm Technologies and Arriver since 2022.
Together, we aim to develop technologies ranging from New Car
Assessment Program (NCAP) solutions to advanced Level 2 driving assistance systems and the Level 3 functionalities of highly automated driving. Since 2021, the BMW Group has also been involved in the Munich-based research project TEMPUS², which explores questions of technical feasibility.

Safety of automated smart systems
The BMW Group’s highest priority is to ensure that its automated systems operate in a safe, secure manner. It is therefore promoting the development of an industry-wide ISO standard for highly and fully automated driving functions, a project it has been involved in right from an early stage. The work has culminated in an ISO Technical Report, which is due to be published as an ISO
Technical Specification in the course of 2023, and sets out uniform technical standards for safe automated driving.

Drivetrain technologies of the future
When developing drivetrain technologies, the BMW Group focuses on the needs of its customers worldwide. For this reason we are constantly developing existing drivetrain technologies in the interests of efficiency, decarbonisation and resource conservation. At the same time, we continue to research new drivetrain technologies with the ultimate aim of developing them for series production.

New generation of battery cells
High-performance, innovative and sustainably produced battery cells are the key to success for individual electric mobility. With its NEUE KLASSE models, the BMW Group will be entering a new era of e-mobility as of 2025, using newly developed round battery cells for the first time that are ideally suited to the new architecture.

The sixth generation of our lithium-ion cells represents a giant technological leap forward compared with the previous generation, effectively increasing energy density by more than 20 %, charging speed by up to 30 % and range by around 30 %. The carbon emissions generated by cell production will be reduced by up to 60 %.

The BMW Group has placed orders worth a double-digit billion euro amount prior to the production of the new BMW battery cells.

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Benefiting from the extensive in-house expertise gained from the
Group’s own Cell Manufacturing Competence Centre, the team consisting of Development, Production and Purchasing has succeeded in significantly cutting the total cost of the high-voltage storage system, thanks to the new battery cell and the innovative integration concept for the storage technology developed by the
BMW Group. Based on current market assumptions, the cost can potentially be reduced by up to 50 % compared to the current fifth generation.

Hydrogen fuel cell technology
During the period under report, we began testing the BMW iX5
Hydrogen with its hydrogen fuel cell drive system under everyday conditions. We aim to test the interaction between the CO2-free drivetrain, the chassis technology and the electronic systems in realistic situations. In order to gain further experience, a pilot fleet of the all-electric model has been in production since the end of

Hydrogen fuel cell technology has the potential to become a sustainable complement to battery-powered e-drive systems. The technology really comes into its own when a comprehensive electric charging infrastructure is not available; it could also be deployed for long-distance use or in larger classes of vehicle.
Depending on market requirements and developments, we intend to offer the model as a series production vehicle in the second half of this decade.

The BMW iX5 Hydrogen is equipped with fuel cells developed in collaboration with the Toyota Motor Corporation. The fuel cell stack and the overall drive system have both been developed in-house. The collaboration project has been in place since 2013 and aims to optimise the technology's suitability for everyday use in each company’s own series production vehicles.

The BMW Group is supporting initiatives across Europe with the aim of establishing an efficient, hydrogen-based economy and promoting the production of green Hydrogen.

The global network of BMW Group Technology Offices is also making an essential contribution to maintaining the Group’s leading role in terms of innovation.

Inspiration and cooperation
Good ideas often emerge when different partners work together.
According to this principle, we are focusing on cooperations in which the strengths of the BMW Group complement those of established partners as well as innovation drivers such as startups, enabling us to continue developing our innovative strengths.

These offices are strategically positioned worldwide and focus on key hotspots of technology and innovation. The potential of new technologies is therefore being explored in pilot projects and transferred to the Group’s centralised teams. Whether manufacturing, developing smart city solutions or the mobility of the future, these Technology Offices are driving forward innovations that benefit the Group in all its lines of business.

Metaverse

The virtual worlds of the Metaverse are a catalyst for digitalisation

world to master high-rev challenges, similar to a racing game.

for the BMW Group, as the use of X-Reality (VR/AR/MR) technoloIntegrated gaming elements, such as avoiding obstacles or colgies and Web 3.0 generates benefits across all areas of the value

lecting virtual coins, enhance the immersive in-car experience.

chain. Our holistic activities comprise the following three pillars:

The system takes all the BMW M2’s axes of motion and rotation

into account. The vehicle itself becomes the controller, in this

1. Corporate Metaverse (virtualisation of internal processes:

case the fastest controller in the world.

virtual working platform for collaboration and interaction,

training and recruiting)

2. Commercial Metaverse (in the “digital brand” context, the

new potential for interaction becomes possible for brands and

customers alike)

3. In-Car Metaverse (offers customers new options for information management, increased productivity, communication and all-round entertainment within the vehicle)

Using the mixed reality approach, which was introduced during

the year under report, a team of engineers from BMW M GmbH

has developed an immersive driving experience for the BMW M2.

Using XR goggles, drivers can immerse themselves in a virtual

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

The trend research conducted by its Technology Offices helps the BMW Group to predict tomorrow’s technological developments. The results are now publicly available in the Trend Radar.
Scientific institutions, start-ups and even potential partners can make use of these.

Worldwide culture of innovation
Global dialogue with start-ups is an important means for the
BMW Group to gain impetus. This is based on three pillars, comprising BMW i Ventures (through which we invest in technology start-ups), the MINI brand-initiated start-up Accelerator URBAN-X that focuses on urban living and the BMW Startup Garage (which serves as the BMW Group’s venture client unit and searches for innovations that represent a significant benefit for products, services, systems and processes). The aim of the programme is to evaluate and empower start-ups to become suppliers and partners.

Shaping the future of mobility
The BMW Group is involved in numerous research and implementation projects for developing new mobility concepts. The main focus is on pilot projects that improve the quality of life and promote more sustainable urban mobility.

For example, the BMW Group is working with the city of Munich to develop urban projects with the involvement of the local population. Among other things, this entails making more efficient use of the available road space, establishing new on-demand services, and promoting parking space management. Moreover, in the Berlin project “New Mobility Berlin” we are jointly developing solutions to meet people’s changing mobility needs and address the shortage of space in a growing city. The project is helping to create shared spaces in order to provide, for example, mobility stations for car sharing or rental bikes. Based on a longterm cooperation with the City of Rotterdam, we are also working on numerous pilot projects; from the better networking of different modes of transport (intermodality) to the more efficient use of charging infrastructure.

Vehicles as part of the power grid
The BMW Group is conducting its own research and development work to integrate electrified vehicles in the power grid, thereby contributing to the energy transition, grid stability, and the carbon-free operation of electrified vehicles. The focus is on technologies such as smart charging, a key component of the
BMW ChargeForward service, which enables customers in numerous states of the USA to synchronise their charging behaviour with the current grid load and the use of renewable energy.
Another cross-sector initiative is the so-called Bidirectional
Charging Management (BCM) research project, which is being subsidised by the German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and
Climate Action. BCM transforms electric vehicles into mobile energy storage devices and thus into a part of the energy grid in that their batteries can not only absorb electricity, but at the same time feed it in the opposite direction into the grid operator’s power supply. In the V2G (Vehicle to Grid) project together with the City of Rotterdam, the BMW Group is also conducting research into using the batteries of electrified vehicles to store surplus renewable energy – with a positive impact on the environment and energy efficiency as well as cutting costs for customers.

Worldwide cooperations and partnerships
To ensure its long-term success, the BMW Group enters into targeted cooperations and partnerships with companies from various industries with the aim of pooling expertise and implementing innovations as swiftly as possible. Several of the Group’s largest collaborations and investments are listed below:

At the beginning of 2022, the BMW Group, Qualcomm Technologies and Arriver Software jointly entered into a long-term cooperation to develop solutions for next-generation automated driving and signed an agreement to that effect. The three companies aim to develop technologies ranging from New Car
Assessment Program (NCAP) solutions and advanced Level 2 driving assistance systems to the Level 3 functionalities of highly automated driving. The joint development of software functions is based on BMW’s current software toolkit for automated driving.
Within the terms of the cooperation, more than 1,400 specialists will work together at various locations worldwide, including sites in Germany, the USA, Sweden, China, Romania and the BMW
AD Test Centre Sokolov in the Czech Republic.

Since the joint acquisition of the HERE mapping service by the
BMW Group, the Mercedes-Benz Group and Audi in 2015, the three partners have been working on high-precision digital maps that can be linked to real-time vehicle data. These maps will form the foundation for the next generation of location-based services and are also the basis for new assistance systems. As an independent platform, HERE remains accessible for the auto motive industry as well as other partners. In the year under report, the location data and technology platform had nine direct and indirect shareholders: Audi, Bosch, the BMW Group, Continental, Intel, Mitsubishi, the Mercedes-Benz Group, Nippon Telegraph and
Telephone, and Pioneer. In November 2022, the BMW Group and
HERE Technologies jointly announced that HERE HD Live Map –
HERE’s high-resolution road map – will be used for automated driving functions.

* Consumption and Carbon Disclosures.

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

The BMW Group is a founding partner of the IONITY joint venture, which aims to establish a high-power charging network for electric vehicles right across Europe. This is an important step in ensuring that electric mobility is convenient to use, even over long distances. The founding partners, i.e. the BMW Group, the
Mercedes-Benz Group, the Ford Motor Company and Porsche, together with Volkswagen and Audi, all participated in equal measure. In 2019, the Hyundai Motor Group with its Hyundai and
Kia brands joined IONITY as an additional shareholder. In April
2022, BlackRock became a further investor, enabling IONITY to continue investing in the densification and expansion of the high-power charging network. Expanding charging infrastructure and enabling faster charging

In collaboration with Amazon Web Services (AWS), the
BMW Group is developing innovative cloud technologies for processing vehicle data. The two companies are also working together to develop commercial standard cloud solutions for the secure handling of vehicle data. The agreement is a continuation of the partnership between BMW and AWS in the field of vehicle data that began back in 2015. As in all previous collaborations with AWS, the BMW Group retains full and exclusive control over the data and complies with the data protection regulations applicable in its respective markets.

Since the launch of the first BMW voice assistant (BMW Intelligent Personal Assistant) in 2018, voice interaction has become an increasingly important part of the BMW iDrive display and operating concept. The next generation of the voice assistant will be based on Amazon’s Alexa technology, thus enabling an even more natural dialogue between driver and vehicle.

Information on the overall scope of the BMW Group’s research and development activities is available in the section on the
Group's results of operations. Financial performance

All BMW Group products and services are required to meet the highest standards in terms of quality and safety, which are ensured by the Group’s comprehensive quality management system. All measures taken reflect the BMW Group’s constant focus on human safety.

Effective safety systems
The BMW Group regards the safety of its vehicle’s occupants and road users in general as its foremost priority when developing its products. Optimum chassis tuning, highly effective braking systems and stable passenger compartments are key factors in this context. Moreover, BMW Group vehicles are equipped with stateof-the-art safety systems that reduce the risk of accidents and injuries (active safety systems such as collision warning or lane departure warning systems) as well as mitigate the consequences in the event of an accident (passive safety systems such as airbags or seat belts).

We work continuously to further improve the safety of our vehicles. For example, since 2021 the BMW iX * has been setting new standards in this field with its active safety systems. These latest-generation safety features are currently being transferred to other models, including the BMW 7 Series and the BMW X1. The sustained high safety level of BMW Group vehicles was again confirmed externally by the European New Car Assessment
Programme (Euro NCAP) in the course of 2022. Following the
BMW iX *, which was awarded 5 stars in the previous year, the
BMW 2 Series Active Tourer and the BMW X1 also earned this maximum rating in the year under report. These results also underpin the BMW Group’s premium aspiration in terms of vehicle safety. GRI Index: 416-1

Quality management
Product safety is an essential part of the BMW Group’s comprehensive quality management system, which is in place to ensure that its products are safe, of excellent quality and legally compliant. From the development stage to manufacturing, the Group’s products are therefore subject to strict testing procedures. However, in our view, quality management goes much further. Any information from customers regarding potential deviations from quality standards are systematically followed up. The BMW Group informs the relevant authorities without delay if required to do so for market-related reasons. This is especially true for safetyrelated and compliance-relevant aspects.

If a safety risk or a compliance-related defect is found, the
BMW Group implements all the measures required to remedy the issue in close coordination with the responsible authorities.
Safety- and compliance-related technical actions affected around
3.4 million vehicles during the year under report. These actions were all of a voluntary nature and carried out in close coordination with the authorities. The BMW Group works according to the principle of prevention. To avoid technical actions of this type going forward, the BMW Group has developed a comprehensive programme that is in place as of 2023.

Pollutants management
The BMW Group aspires to comply with all legal requirements regarding the use and handling of pollutants at every link in the value chain and also insists on corresponding requirements throughout its entire supply chain. To the extent possible, the use of problematic substances is ruled out right from the vehicle design stage. In this respect we use the Global Automotive Declarable Substance List (GADSL) as a guideline. At the same time, we are working to reduce pollutant emissions in the interior of our vehicles to an absolute minimum. All BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce brand vehicles are equipped as standard with interior air filters

* Consumption and Carbon Disclosures.

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

that prevent exterior pollutants and particles such as dust or pollen from entering the vehicle. Since 2020, the BMW Group has been using air filters equipped with nanofibre technology that are specially designed to prevent certain microbial particles and allergens as well as ultra-fine particulate matter from entering the vehicle.

Sensitising and empowering customers
The BMW Group provides its customers with a broad range of information regarding the proper use of its products and services. Information on safety, the correct operation of vehicles, and health protection is available in both printed and digital form
(online or via app). The information is supplemented by detailed notes and background information on the services, accessories and components pertaining to each individual vehicle.

With the BMW M Driving Experience, the BMW Group offers driver and rider safety training for BMW, MINI and BMW Motorrad brand vehicles in 25 countries. In addition to the product experience itself, participants learn how to handle their vehicles in a safe manner and are made aware of potentially dangerous situations when using public roads. In 2022, more than 100,000 customers worldwide took part in these training courses.

Customer data protection
In view of the increasing scale of digitalisation and the higher level of IT risks, the BMW Group regards data protection as a key responsibility. Strict data protection requirements are therefore taken into account at an early stage when developing functions and services. Any personal data required in the course of contact with our customers are only collected, processed or used to the extent legally permitted and with the active consent of the data subject. The BMW Group deploys an individually configurable data protection menu to ensure transparency, informational self-determination and thus data sovereignty for all its customers.

In order to ensure the protection of customer data, despite the challenge posed by the growing number of digitalised services, we are constantly developing our data management systems and respond promptly to any information received regarding data protection risks. During the year under report, we additionally improved customer data protection by tightening customer data governance. If customers have any queries regarding the processing of their personal data, they are welcome to contact the
Customer Interaction Centre or the Data Protection Officer in their respective market.

At the same time, we work continuously to maintain our high level of data protection and regularly check all applications deployed for processing customer data to ensure they comply with all currently applicable and appropriate IT security measures.
Our specialised teams search specifically for weak points in applications. We also translate any new findings into binding, Group-wide standards if the need arises.

The BMW Group collaborates closely with the relevant data protection supervisory authorities, particularly regarding fundamental data protection issues such as the increasing connectivity of vehicles. GRI Index: 3-3, 418-1

Secure connectivity
The BMW Group’s responsibility for its products includes the secure transmission of vehicle data to third parties. For example, Group vehicles are not directly connected to the Internet, but communicate directly and exclusively with the BMW ConnectedDrive back-end facilities via a secure connection within a virtual private network. The strategy enables the BMW Group to minimise the risk of unauthorised third parties accessing either the vehicle itself or any of its sensitive data. The access point to the
Internet is controlled via a gateway. We see this extended vehicle copytext approach in accordance with ISO 20078 as the best solution to providing outstanding data security and data protection and meeting statutory cybersecurity requirements (e.g.
UN R155).

CarData provides BMW and MINI customers with transparency and sovereignty over the transfer of data to authorised third parties. With the introduction of the service in Germany and Europe in 2017 and the USA in 2020, the BMW Group is fully implementing the current requirements of the EU General Data Protection
Regulation (EU GDPR) and the California Consumer Privacy Act
(CCPA). The BMW Group deploys state-of-the-art technologies to prevent vehicle theft. In the BMW iX* for example, ultra-wideband technology further enhances the level of vehicle security.

* Consumption and Carbon Disclosures.

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

CO2 steering

BMW Group
Strategy

Consistency with the objectives of the
Paris Agreement
(Scope 1, 2, 3) and SBTi commitment

Monitoring and Reporting –
Governance
(Group reporting, publications)

steering

Targets for product projects and anchoring in the periodic targets
(t CO2 per vehicle) of the departments
Sales, Development and Production

Target guidance and target control through ongoing evaluation of contribution to the measures (avoidance of CO2 emissions)

Development of measures to meet targets and implementation in the technology clusters for all scopes

The BMW Group is fully committed to the climate protection targets set out in the Paris Agreement. We are taking ambitious steps to contribute to progressive decarbonisation. At its base is our holistic carbon reduction strategy. By 2050 at the latest, we intend to achieve net zero in terms of our carbon emissions across the entire value chain.

By holistic, we mean reducing the carbon emissions of our vehicles not only during the use phase, but over their entire life cycle.
With this approach we aim to achieve substantial improvements that stretch across all our vehicle generations. This point is particularly important in view of the increasing electrification of entire fleets: although the strategy reduces the carbon emissions generated during the Use phase, at the same time, however, they increase, particularly in the supply chain, mainly due to the carbon-intensive production of components such as high-voltage batteries. Reducing carbon emissions is therefore one of the key criteria we apply when awarding contracts to partners within our supplier network. Via this strategy, the BMW Group is simultaneously promoting cross-sector decarbonisation, particularly for energy-intensive primary materials such as steel, light metals and plastics. Carbon emissions in the supply chain

The BMW Group’s ambitious decarbonisation targets are part of its integrated corporate target system. They are in line with the climate protection targets set out in the Paris Agreement and validated by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). These targets are being implemented under the responsibility of the
Board of Management in the BMW Group’s various departments and thus consistently throughout the organisation. Performance indicators and management The BMW Group derives its specific decarbonisation targets for each vehicle project from its overarching goals. The responsibility for achieving these goals lies with defined specialist units in the management areas of Development, control and reporting systems take into account the various stag98

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

es along the value chain, comprising the supply chain, development, production and the use phase of the vehicles. Among other factors, emissions targets at component level form the basis for the Group’s carbon reduction measures. Target management and the monitoring of target achievement are performed at vehicle level and subsequently aggregated for various purposes, including reporting at Group level.

We explain how the BMW Group manages the topic of sustainability across the organisation in the chapter Strategy. We also report on the management of climate-related opportunities and risks, such as the stricter regulation of carbon emissions, in the chapters Outlook and Risks and Opportunities.

Carbon reduction targets across the value chain in detail
For now, efforts to reduce the BMW Group’s carbon emissions are based on measurable, science-based targets set to 2030. In this context, we joined the SBTi in 2020.

With these targets in mind, we are moving forward along a pathway in line with the Paris Agreement set to limit global warming.
On this basis, we also became the first German automobile manufacturer to join the Business Ambition for 1.5°C initiative of the SBTi in 2021. The BMW Group is therefore also part of the international Race to Zero Campaign initiated by the United Nations. With this strategy, we are also seeking to motivate other companies to take ambitious steps to protect the climate.

We have set ourselves the following SBTi-validated carbon reduction targets¹ by 2030 (base year 2019 for each scope):

— Carbon reduction by an average of 80 % per vehicle produced at our own plants and sites (Scope 1 and 2)2. These targets can be achieved by for example reducing our energy requirements and simultaneously increasing the use of renewable energy.3 Carbon emissions at BMW Group sites

— Carbon reduction in the use phase 4 of the vehicle (Scope 3 downstream 5) by an average of more than 50 % per kilometre driven. To accomplish this target, we are driving forward the electrification of the entire product portfolio and deploying new, efficiency-enhancing technologies.
Efficient Dynamics technologies

— Carbon reduction by more than 20 % on average 6 per vehicle in the supply chain (Scope 3 upstream 7). Thus we also have a scientifically tested and confirmed target for reducing carbon emissions in the supply chain. In particular, the use of renewable energy sources 3 as a criterion for awarding contracts to suppliers and a continuously rising secondary raw materials ratio will contribute to achieving the target.
Carbon emissions in the supply chain.

Over the entire life cycle 8 of a vehicle, the individual targets mentioned above will result in an average carbon reduction of more than 40 % by 2030. In order to achieve this, we rely on measures to reduce carbon emissions, such as the use of renewable energies 3, in both our own operations and those of our suppliers.
Accordingly, compensation measures are not included. In particular, the significant increase in the sale of electrified vehicles, efficiency improvements in all drivetrain technologies and effective measures to reduce carbon emissions in the supply chain are expected to help achieve the targets. The BMW Group will continuously review and further develop its carbon reduction targets with the aim of continuing to meet its high standards for decarbonising its business model going forward.

Absolute carbon emissions decreased by 4.2 % to around
117.4 million tonnes during the year under report (2021: 122.5 million tonnes), the main driver being the increasing electrification of the product portfolio. We provide comprehensive information on the BMW Group’s carbon footprint in the chapter Further GRI
Information.

emissions from the supply of fuel in the use phase, take into account not only carbon but also other climate-impacting greenhouse gases such as methane and are stated in carbon equivalents (CO2e).
The measurement of Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, as well as the additional Scope 3 emissions, does not include climate-impacting gases other than carbon dioxide. Glossary

sites not allocated to production.

figures and actual emissions. The upstream supply chain emissions generated by various energy sources (fossil fuels and electricity) according to the well-to-wheel approach are also included. The assumed average mileage is 200,000 km (in accordance with VDA 900-100). For definition and further information, see Glossary (carbon emissions of the new vehicle fleet worldwide including upstream supply chain emissions).

11: Use phase. Further information (carbon footprint).

Purchased goods and services; Category 4: Transportation and distribution. Further information
(carbon footprint).

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Statutory carbon limits again achieved in the use phase
Carbon emissions generated in the use phase are not only an important metric in our life cycle assessment, but also subject to numerous regulatory requirements. The BMW Group aims not only to meet the statutory carbon emissions limits, but to undercut them. Within the EU¹, average carbon fleet emissions, taking into account regulatory requirements² and in accordance with
WLTP³, were 105.0 g CO2/km 4. We have thus reduced the carbon emissions of the new vehicle fleet EU 5 by a further 10.9 g compared to the previous year (2021: 115.9 g CO2/km 4). We remained significantly below the limit of 127.5 g CO2/km 4 applicable to the
BMW Group in the year under report by 22.5 g CO2/km, continuing the trend seen in recent decades, driven by the electrification of the vehicle fleet and the fleet-wide deployment of innovative
Efficient Dynamics technologies. On this basis, we shall continue to work on reducing greenhouse gas emissions going forward.

Regulatory GHG fleet consumption targets were met in the US market during the year under report.6 In the USA, GHG fleet emissions 7 averaged 137.3 g CO2/km for model year (MY) 2022 for the
Passenger Cars category (MY 2021: 134.0 g CO2/km) and 154.9 g
CO2/km (MY 2021: 150.1 g CO2/km) for the Light Truck category.
Volume-weighted fleet carbon emissions averaged 145.9 g CO2/ km in the USA (MY 2021: 140.9 g CO2/km).8 Despite higher sales of all-electric vehicles in the US market, GHG fleet emissions increased slightly year-on-year, as significantly more vehicles from higher segments with correspondingly higher emissions were also sold during the year under report. In China, average fleet carbon emissions were 150.6 g CO2/km9 in accordance with the WLTC test cycle (2021: 163.0 g CO2/km WLTC). Thus we also met the regulatory CAFC fleet consumption requirements applicable in that country during the year under report.10

The BMW Group’s worldwide carbon fleet emissions 11 averaged
193.7 g CO2/km 12 (2021: 197.9 g CO2/km) in the year under report.
These figures correspond to a decrease of 11.4 % compared to the base year 2019 (2019: 218.5 g CO2/km). When calculating the emissions figure, the BMW Group takes into account the average

carbon fleet emissions (including upstream emissions for fuel and electric charging) in the EU, the USA and China and standardises them in accordance with WLTP. With a share of more than
80 % of BMW Group deliveries, these three core markets and regions form a reliable basis for calculating global carbon fleet emissions.

The BMW Group is paying close attention to carbon emissions legislation in its various markets. Current developments during the year under report included the EU’s agreement on new fleet emissions targets for the years 2030 and 2035 and the tightening of national fleet consumption targets in the USA. At state level, the California Environmental Protection Agency (CARB) also adopted a new Zero Emission Vehicle (ZEV) mandate in
2022 that calls for a ZEV quota of 100 % by 2035, which is expected to be adopted by several states. In principle, the
BMW Group supports the development of harmonized regulations – both nationally and internationally. Comparable specifications in major markets create reliable, predictable framework conditions and make an important contribution to combating climate change as well as improving air quality. We provide information on the BMW Group’s most important climate policy positions and activities in our Climate Commitment Report.

Making conventional drivetrains more efficient and generating fewer emissions
From the BMW Group’s point of view, modern, efficient combustion engines also continue to play an important role. This perspective will continue to apply as long as unrestricted access to charging infrastructure cannot yet be guaranteed across all regions and for every customer. For this reason, the BMW Group will continue to work on improving the efficiency of its conventional drivetrain systems as part of its Efficient Dynamics strategy. Efficient Dynamics is a technology package comprising various coordinated measures to reduce fuel consumption in the fields of engine technology, aerodynamics and lightweight construction that has been in use across the fleet since 2007.

reported in accordance with the new Worldwide Harmonized Light Vehicles Test Procedure (WLTP) type test cycle as of 2021. Since 2021, this metric has been used by the EU Commission as the basis for calculating carbon fleet emissions.

registration figures from the authorities are not available for all EU states. Figures officially published by the EU Commission are not expected to be available until November of the following year. Prior-year figures have not been retrospectively adjusted.

(Greenhouse Gas) fleet limits. Failure to remain below the regulatory limits results in negative credits. At the end of a model year, a positive GHG credit balance must be achieved in order to meet regulatory requirements. As GHG credits are valid for five years on the US market, a short-term failure to meet fleet limit targets in one year can be offset by undercutting them in a previous year.
Moreover, it is possible to purchase credits from other manufacturers. In the year under report, the
BMW Group used this type of flexibility to meet regulatory GHG requirements on the US market. As of
2023, the BMW Group will no longer purchase credits from other manufacturers, but meet the requirements without exception using credits it generates itself.

multipliers, credits for advanced technologies) in accordance with USC (United States Combined).
Preliminary internal calculation.

technologies, NEV multipliers, phase-in) in accordance with WLTC (Worldwide Harmonized Test Cycle under China-specific test boundary conditions). Preliminary internal calculation.

(Corporate Average Fuel Consumption) fleet limits. Failure to remain below the regulatory limits results in negative credits. In addition, manufacturers receive positive credits for meeting or undercutting the ZEV quota specifications (Zero Emission Vehicle quota). At the end of a calendar year, a positive CAFC/ZEV credit balance must be achieved in order to meet regulatory requirements.
As CAFC/ZEV credits are valid for five years on the Chinese market, a short-term failure to meet fleet limit targets in one year can be offset by undercutting them in a previous year. Moreover, it is possible to purchase credits from other manufacturers. In the year under report, the BMW Group used this type of flexibility to meet regulatory CAFC and ZEV requirements on the Chinese market. As of
2023, the BMW Group will no longer purchase credits from other manufacturers, but meet the requirements without exception using credits it generates itself. A balance between CAFC and ZEV remains in place.

including upstream supply chain emissions).

figures and actual emissions. The upstream supply chain emissions generated by various energy sources (fossil fuels and electricity) according to the well-to-wheel approach are also included. The assumed average mileage is 200,000 km (in accordance with VDA 900-100). For definition and further information, see Glossary (carbon emissions of the new vehicle fleet worldwide including upstream supply chain emissions).

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

A key component in this respect is currently the extended use of
48-volt technology. 48-volt recuperation systems use the energy recovered from the braking process to supply the vehicle’s electrical system and generate additional propulsion. The technology helps reduce fuel consumption and thus also carbon emissions. In Europe, in addition to its all-electric models and plug-in hybrids, we offer numerous new model series that feature a 48volt recuperation system. Since 2022, our modular engines have been fitted with the second, even more efficient, generation of
48-volt technology. The further development of energy management in BMW Group vehicles, alongside other measures such as switching to highly efficient tyres, is designed to ensure additional efficiency and optimised consumption figures.

Further reduction in pollutant emissions
Since the early 1990s, the BMW Group has significantly reduced the regulated pollutant emissions of its vehicles, such as nitrogen oxides (NOx), carbon monoxide (CO) and particulate matter (PM)1 by deploying new technologies and further developing existing ones. In Europe alone, we have reduced the relevant exhaust emissions of our new vehicle fleets for diesel-powered passenger cars in line with the limits of the Euro 1 to Euro 6d emissions standards by well over 90 % from 1992 to 2021 compared with levels measured prior to the introduction of the Euro emissions standards. All BMW Group vehicles offered during the year under report meet the current Euro 6d emissions standard applicable within the European Union as well as comparable regulations in
Switzerland, Norway, the UK and Iceland.

The level of nitrogen oxides is a crucial factor for air quality in cities. For this reason, since mid-2018 the BMW Group has been using a highly effective combination of NOx storage catalytic converters (NSC) and selective catalytic reduction (SCR) systems that include urea injection (AdBlue) in all BMW vehicles as well as in the larger diesel-powered MINI models. The efficiency of exhaust gas aftertreatment has been further raised by the use of an improved oxidation catalytic converter in combination with a two-stage SCR system. This new technology has been available since 2020 with the revised generation of 6-cylinder diesel

engines and will be rolled out across the entire product portfolio in the coming years. There have already been signs of a reduction in NOx pollution in German cities over the last few years. Apart from various measures taken to reduce pollutants, the ongoing renewal of the vehicle fleets of all automobile manufacturers has also contributed to the improvement. GRI-Index: 305-7

Electric mobility is among the major topics driving the ongoing transformation in the automotive industry. The BMW Group is systematically continuing to electrify its model range as a key component of its product strategy. Our electrified vehicles are playing a major role in reducing fleet emissions and thus achieving our ambitious strategic carbon reduction targets.

Growing demand for electrified vehicles
With our constantly expanding range of all-electric, battery-powered vehicles (BEV 2) and plug-in hybrid models (PHEV 3), we are serving a rapidly growing demand. In 2022, the BMW Group delivered a total of 433,792 4 units to customers, i.e. significantly more electrified vehicles than in the previous year (2021: 328,314 4 units; + 32.1 %). On this basis, the share of electrified vehicles had also increased significantly to 18.1 % by the end of the year under report (2021: 13.0 %). To date, the BMW Group has therefore handed over a total of more than 1.4 million vehicles with either all-electric or plug-in hybrid drive systems to customers.
Automotive segment

The share of electrified vehicles in total deliveries might exceed
30 % by as early as 2025. In our view, the NEUE KLASSE has the potential to additionally accelerate the market penetration of electric mobility, and thus a 50 % share of all-electric vehicles in the
BMW Group’s global unit sales could be achieved even earlier than 2030. Under these conditions, the BMW Group aims to surpass the mark of ten million all-electric vehicles delivered to customers in total by 2030. This positive expectation for future sales

will also play a key role in the review of our carbon emissions reduction targets scheduled to take place in 2023.
Carbon emissions reduction targets across the value chain in detail

Both the MINI and the Rolls-Royce brands are also firmly on track towards an electrified future. Based on their respective typical user profiles, the model ranges of the two brands are set to be exclusively all-electric by the early 2030s.

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Model range consistently focused on customer needs
The BMW Group’s product range not only serves the growing demand for electrified models, but also reflects varying framework conditions and customer needs in its individual markets.
Our customers can therefore continue to choose between all-electric vehicles, plug-in hybrids and efficient internal combustion engines. We make this customer-oriented offering possible by means of our flexible production systems and the scalable modular system of our vehicles. The diversity of the range is embodied in particular by the BMW X1, BMW X3, BMW 3 and 4
Series and BMW 7 Series models, each of which is available with all three types of drivetrain. This will also apply to the BMW 5
Series as of 2023.

At the end of the reporting period, the BMW Group had a total of
New additions include the BMW i7 1, the BMW iX1 1 and the extended-wheelbase version of the BMW 3 Series for the Chinese market, deliveries of which began in 2022. The existing, all-electric product portfolio will be expanded to include the BMW iX3 1, BMW i4 1, BMW iX 1 and the MINI Cooper SE 1. The inclusion of these variants in the range means that at least one all-electric model will be available in each of the high-yield model series.
Over the next two years, vehicles such as the BMW i5 and the all-electric variant of the MINI Countryman are set to follow. As of 2025, the Group will take its core BMW brand into a new, consistently all-electric dimension with the NEUE KLASSE.

Moreover, in the course of 2022, the BMW Group either launched or revised seven different PHEV engine variants. At the end of
2022, a total of 19 PHEV engine variants 1 in a total of 13 models were available to order worldwide. With offers such as the BMW eDrive Zone, attractive electricity tariffs for driving, charging equipment and increased ranges, we are helping drivers of plug-in hybrids to drive electrically as frequently and over as long a distance as possible. For instance, the BMW 2 Series Active
Tourer Plug-in Hybrid 1 from the compact segment can cover up to 93 kilometres (WLTP 2) solely on battery power.

Increasing range in line with customer needs
The BMW Group assesses the increase in the electric ranges of its vehicles from various points of view. Basically, we are not aiming to achieve the greatest technically possible range across all vehicle segments, but see it as important to optimally adapt ranges to the intended use of the respective vehicle. At the same time, we also take into account the environmental impact, as greater range also means deploying larger and therefore heavier high-voltage batteries. This relationship has a direct effect on resource consumption, the environmental footprint of the supply chain and, of course, vehicle weight, which in turn has a significant impact on electricity consumption.

With these points in mind, the MINI Cooper SE 1 has a range of more than 200 kilometres (WLTP 2), which is fully in line with customer requirements for urban areas. On the other hand, the
BMW iX 1, the BMW i4 1 and the BMW i7 1 are designed to cover long distances of around 600 kilometres (WLTP 2) on one charge.

Thinking holistically about electric mobility
The BMW Group’s electrified vehicles are characterised by high efficiency and thus low consumption when driving. However, the
BMW Group has greater aspirations: its vehicles need to be as eco-friendly as possible, not only during their locally carbon-free use phase, but also in terms of their overall footprint, including the supply chain and production. CO2 steering With battery-powered automobiles in particular, the environmental impacts are predominantly in the upstream value chain, where the purchase of raw materials to make battery cells and the carbon-intensive production of batteries have a significant impact.

The BMW Group therefore attributes great importance to including environmental and social aspects when producing components such as electric motors, high-voltage storage units and battery cells. Carbon emissions in the supply chain Social and ecological responsibility Other approaches to mitigating the environmental impacts include recycling and reusing high-voltage storage units from our BEV and PHEV models. The BMW Group

already offers all customers who purchase its battery-powered vehicles the opportunity to take back their high-voltage batteries free of charge.

Expanding charging infrastructure and enabling faster charging
An expanded, customer-friendly charging infrastructure will pave the way for the rapid and widespread use of electric mobility. This relationship is supported, for example, by market data collected within the EU – both at the level of member states and in a comparison of different regions. A prerequisite for the swift development of an efficient charging infrastructure is a high level of willingness on the part of all stakeholders. This applies in particular to the expansion of charging and hydrogen refuelling infrastructure within the EU – a key factor in achieving the ambitious fleet carbon reduction targets adopted in 2022. The BMW Group continues to advocate for standardised framework conditions and creates offers that enable customer-friendly charging on a broad basis.

Procedure). However, the actual range possible depends on a variety of factors, particularly variables such as personal driving style, route conditions, outside temperatures, heating, air conditioning and pre-heating. Preliminary figure.

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Reliable charging opportunities
With BMW and MINI Charging, the BMW Group is offering its customers attractive electricity tariffs for driving as well as convenient charging solutions whether on the road, at home or at work. Customers can access a large number of public charging points via their BMW or MINI Charging Card and the My BMW or MINI App. Digital Charging Services GmbH (DCS) provides broad access to various charging networks throughout Europe.
As a joint venture of the BMW Group, the Mercedes-Benz Group and bp, DCS is among Europe’s leading providers of digital charging solutions.

A total of almost 900,000 charging points is available to BMW and MINI customers worldwide. In Europe alone, BMW customers have easy access to a network with over 360,000 charging points, including fast-charging stations with a capacity of up to
350 kilowatts (kW). These are all part of IONITY’s European high-power charging services initiated by the BMW Group, which can be used via BMW and MINI Charging. IONITY currently operates 430 stations with 1,900 charging points in a total of 24 countries, which are publicly accessible, brand-independent and designed in accordance with the European Combined Charging
System (CCS) charging standard. Furthermore, they are all powered by 100 % green electricity.

Beyond the public charging service, BMW and MINI Charging provide a standard charging solution both for homes and on the road in the form of the Flexible Fast Charger and other charging products. We also offer charging solutions for corporate customers in cooperation with our partners. The BMW Group itself operates one of the largest company charging networks in Germany.

Digital, innovative and more eco-friendly charging solutions
Charging should be as easy as conventional refuelling and we are working on digital solutions in particular to meet this demand.
These include Connected Charging – an application that can be accessed from the vehicle as well as via an app. Via the service, drivers not only receive up-to-date charging information, since
2022 they have also been able to control the charging process at the touch of a button. The eRoute function also enables customers to plan their charging stops on long-distance trips. In the course of 2023, the first BMW models will also be equipped with a Plug&Charge function, in which both authentication and billing will be done automatically by connecting the vehicle to the charging system. Using the so-called multi-contract functionality, individual driving electricity tariff contracts from various providers can also be stored digitally within the vehicle to facilitate the use of charging stations from different operators.

We also promote the use of renewable energy. Since 2022, for each charging process conducted via BMW and MINI Charging, the equivalent amount of energy consumed is fed into the power grid as green electricity, which is certified via Energy Attribute
Certificates (EACs) as recognised proofs of origin. Moreover, we are continuously working on integrating electric vehicles with their high-voltage storage systems in the energy grid. Vehicles as part of the power grid

Advancing hydrogen technology
Customer-oriented technological diversity also includes the further development of fuel cell technology. Depending on the segment, we see hydrogen-powered electric vehicles as an important complement to electric mobility with batteries and thus as an opportunity to reduce carbon emissions even more quickly.
Following the presentation of the first BMW iX5 Hydrogen at the
IAA Mobility in 2021, at the end of August 2022 we began producing fuel cells for a pilot fleet of these vehicles. In December, this was followed by the start of production of these vehicles at the pilot plant of the Research and Innovation Centre in Munich.

We are also driving hydrogen technology forward at a higher level and thus are involved in global organisations and associations such as the Hydrogen Council. As an associated partner of
H2 Mobility Deutschland GmbH, the BMW Group is supporting the development of hydrogen infrastructure in Germany. In this context, the BMW Group welcomes the requirement under the EU’s
Fit for 55 legislative package to establish a basic infrastructure of 700-bar hydrogen filling stations.

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

NETWORK

Renewable Energy

The BMW Group’s production network features a high level of expertise in terms of integration. Its plants are capable of manufacturing vehicles with both all-electric and plug-in hybrid drive systems as well as conventional combustion engines – all on one single line. The Group’s entire production facilities are geared towards electrification, profitability, sustainability and digitalisation. The strategic aims of the BMW iFACTORY form the framework – lean, green and digital. “Lean” stands for efficiency, precision, maximum flexibility and an outstanding ability to integrate.
“Green” involves the use of state-of-the-art technologies to systemise production with the lowest possible use of resources.
“Digital” focuses on data science, AI, virtual planning and development.

Electric mobility globally integrated
The share of electric mobility in total sales is steadily growing and further milestones were reached in the course of 2022. With the start of production of the BMW iX1* in Regensburg, the
BMW Group achieved its aim of producing at least one all-electric model at each of its German vehicle plants by 2022. Moreover, the first BMW i7* was manufactured at the BMW Group’s
Dingolfing plant. Production also began in Lydia, an extension of the BMW Brilliance plant in Tiexi, China, where the all-electric long-wheelbase version of the BMW 3 Series is being manufactured for the Chinese market.

We produce units with electrified drivetrains in our production network at 13 locations worldwide. Fully electric units roll off the production line in Dingolfing, Leipzig, Munich, Regensburg, Oxford and Shenyang. As of 2025, the NEUE KLASSE will also feature a vehicle architecture systematically geared to suit electric drive systems. The vehicle is due to be manufactured initially at the new Debrecen plant in Hungary as well as in Munich as of 2026. We aim to gradually transfer the new vehicle architecture to the global production network in the years that follow. It also plans to produce all-electric vehicles at the plant in Spartanburg
(USA) and at least six all-electric X models are scheduled to be manufactured there by 2030.

Integrated component production for electrified vehicles
The BMW Group’s production network also manufactures the systems required for the electric drivetrain. The competence centre for e-drive production in Dingolfing plays a leading role in this respect, as battery modules, high-voltage batteries and fifth-generation electric motors are all produced at the site.
High-voltage batteries and their components are also made at
BMW Group production plants in Leipzig and Regensburg, as well as in Spartanburg (USA) and Shenyang (China).

At the same time, the Group is preparing its network to produce the next generation of electric drivetrains. The Steyr engine manufacturing plant in Austria is also being expanded to develop and produce the BMW Group’s sixth generation of e-drive systems

* Consumption and Carbon Disclosures.

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

in addition to the diesel and petrol engines already being manufactured at the site. The next generation of high-voltage batteries will be assembled nearby the plant. A new assembly centre for high-voltage batteries is also due to be established close to the Spartanburg plant for this purpose. A corresponding announcement concerning the Debrecen plant in Hungary was made in 2022.

The Cell Manufacturing Competence Centre (CMCC) in Parsdorf near Munich, which went into operation in 2022, is making a vital contribution to the next generation of e-drive systems. Starting with the pilot production line in Parsdorf, the BMW Group intends to continue optimising the manufacturing processes of battery cells in terms of quality, performance and costs. The CMCC complements the Battery Cell Competence Centre in Munich, which focuses primarily on the battery cell as a product.

Production sites in key markets
The BMW Group always aims to strike a good balance between production and deliveries in the various regions of the world where it operates. Group plants in Europe, South Africa, the USA and Mexico serve the global market. The BMW Brilliance plants in China mainly manufacture for the local market. During the year under report, expansion and extension measures were completed at the Chinese plants and further models integrated in our production processes. The BMW Group’s automotive partner plants in Jakarta (Indonesia), Cairo (Egypt), Kulim (Malaysia) and, since 2022, Chu Lai (Vietnam) primarily serve their respective regional markets, producing both BMW and MINI brand models.
The same applies to the BMW Group plants in Araquari (Brazil), Rayong (Thailand) and Chennai (India). The Group also awards contracts for the series production of automobiles and motorcycles to external partners (contract manufacturers). During the year under report, Magna Steyr Fahrzeugtechnik produced the
BMW 5 Series Sedan and the BMW Z4* in Graz (Austria). VDL
Nedcar in Born (the Netherlands) manufactured the MINI Convertible and the MINI Countryman as well as the BMW X1 until summer 2022.

The BMW Group manufactures BMW motorcycles and scooters at its Berlin plant as well as at two international locations in
Manaus (Brazil) and Rayong (Thailand). BMW motorcycles and scooters are also produced by the partner companies TVS Motor
Company in Hosur (India) and Loncin Motor Co., Ltd in Chongqing
(China).

The BMW Group’s production network also includes engine plants in Hams Hall (UK), Munich (Germany), Steyr (Austria) and
Shenyang (China), as well as component plants at sites in
Eisenach, Landshut and Wackersdorf (Germany) and Swindon
(UK). The production network thus comprises a total of 31 plants in 15 countries.

BMW Group vehicle plants

Location

Araquari

Berlin

Chennai

Dingolfing

Leipzig

Manaus

Munich

Oxford

Rayong

Regensburg

Rosslyn

San Luis Potosí

Spartanburg

Country

Brazil

Germany

India

Production programme 2022

Electrification portfolio

BMW 3 Series, BMW X1, BMW X3, BMW X4

BMW motorcycles

BMW 2 Series, BMW 3 Series, BMW 5 Series, BMW 6
Series, BMW 7 Series, BMW X1, BMW X3, BMW X4, BMW X5, BMW X7, MINI Countryman

Germany

BMW 4 Series, BMW 5 Series, BMW 6 Series, BMW 7
Series, BMW 8 Series, BMW M, BMW i7*, BMW iX*

BEV, PHEV

Germany

BMW 1 Series, BMW 2 Series, BMW i3

BEV, PHEV

Brazil

Germany

Thailand

BMW motorcycles

BMW 3 Series, BMW 4 Series, BMW i4*, BMW M

BEV, PHEV

MINI, MINI Clubman, MINI Cooper SE*

BMW 2 Series, BMW 3 Series, BMW 5 Series, BMW 7
Series, BMW

PHEV

Germany

BMW 1 Series, BMW 2 Series, BMW X1, BMW iX1*, BMW X2

BEV, PHEV

South Africa

BMW X3

Mexico

BMW 2 Series, BMW 3 Series, BMW M

PHEV

PHEV

Rolls-Royce Manufacturing Plant, Goodwood,

Rolls-Royce Cullinan*, Dawn*, Ghost*, Phantom*, Wraith*

BEV from 2023

* Consumption and Carbon Disclosures.

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

BMW Brilliance Automotive (vehicle plants)1

Location

Dadong (Shenyang)

Tiexi (Shenyang)

Country

China

China

Production programme 2022

Electrification portfolio

BMW 5 Series, BMW X3, BMW X5, BMW iX3 2

BEV, PHEV

BMW 1 Series, BMW 3 Series, BMW X1, BMW X2, BMW i3 (extended-wheelbase version of BMW 3
Series)

PHEV

Stable production volume despite challenging environment
The coronavirus pandemic and the ongoing limited availability of semiconductor components again led to adjustments in the production programme during the year under report.
Supply security

Despite these challenges, the BMW Group achieved a production volume of 2,382,305 3 BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce brand vehicles during the period under report (2021: 2,461,269 3 automobiles; – 3.2 %). BMW brand models accounted for 2,089,801 3 vehicles (2021: 2,166,644 3 vehicles; – 3.5 %), MINI for 286,265 units (2021: 288,713 units; – 0.8 %), and Rolls-Royce Motor
Cars for a record 6,239 units (2021: 5,912 units; + 5.5 %). Production of electrified vehicles increased to a new high level of
462,396 units (2021: 341,097 units; + 35.6 %), of which 252,077

Ltd. (BMW Brilliance) at the beginning of the financial year 2022, BMW Brilliance was included in the
Group reporting entity. Further information on the first-time consolidation is available in note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

consolidation in the consolidated financial statements of the BMW Group (1 January to 10 February
2022): 58,507 automobiles (2021: 700,777 automobiles).

were all-electric (2021: 119,010 units; + 111.8 %). The production of motorcycles by BMW Motorrad rose by 15.2 % to 215,932 units
(2021: 187,500 units).

BMW Group automobile production by plant

in units

Spartanburg

Dingolfing

Regensburg

Leipzig

Oxford

Munich

Rosslyn

Rayong

Chennai

Araquari

Goodwood

San Luis Potosí

Tiexi (BMW Brilliance) 4

Dadong (BMW Brilliance) 4

Born (VDL Nedcar) 5

Graz (Magna Steyr) 5

Partner plants

Total

Change in %

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Closed material cycle for nickel, lithium and cobalt in China

For the first time, the BMW Group is currently setting up a

closed cycle in China with the aim of reusing the raw materials nickel, lithium and cobalt from end-of-life high-voltage batteries. The batteries originate primarily from fully

and partially electrified development vehicles, test facilities, production scrap and are reused in forklifts. In the

long term, the BMW Group also plans to reuse batteries

from end-of-life vehicles. In this context, the BMW Group

is working together with a local recycling company that

dismantles the batteries and recovers a high percentage

of the raw materials from the battery cells using an innovative technology. These secondary raw materials are

intended to be used to produce new battery cells for the

BMW Group.

Against a backdrop of rising raw materials prices and the growing scarcity of resources, the BMW Group is taking further steps to increase the proportion of reused materials in its vehicles and thus promote the circular economy. The circularity approach requires a holistic strategy – beginning at the product design stage and including the broader use of secondary materials in the supply chain as well as the recycling of end-of-life vehicles. The strategy also reduces dependence on primary raw materials at the same time. At all levels of in-house production, we remain committed to systematically conserving resources, continuously improving energy efficiency and further reducing carbon emissions.

Closing material cycles
In order to reduce the use of primary materials in the automotive value chain, the BMW Group endeavours to close cycles within the production chain and therefore returns selected production residues to its suppliers of material. The recovery of essential groups of materials at the end of a product’s life cycle can be significantly increased by focusing on recycling-compatible concepts at the development stage, thereby enabling materials to be recovered and recycled for use in new production processes.
Going forward, the cobalt, lithium and nickel used by cell manufacturers to produce battery cells for the BMW Group’s NEUE
KLASSE will include a proportion of secondary materials. This approach reduces the need for primary materials and thus the sourcing of potentially critical raw materials.
Average distribution of materials in BMW Group vehicles

Already today, BMW Group vehicles are manufactured to a certain extent from recycled and reused materials. In line with the
“ Secondary First” approach, we aim to maximise the use of secondary materials going forward, taking both technical feasibility and availability into account. For this reason, within the framework of selected product, material and supplier requirements, we clearly specify that secondary materials will be given preference in future vehicles. The BMW i Vision Circular is symbolic of our ambitions in this respect, by showing that it is possible to build a vehicle entirely out of recycled or renewable raw materials.

We encourage the return of end-of-life vehicles, components and materials for reuse as a secondary source of raw materials in order to drive the circular economy. Together with its national sales companies, the BMW Group has already organised the return of end-of-life vehicles in 30 countries and offers environmentally friendly recycling at more than 2,800 points of return.
GRI Index: 301-3, 301-3, SASB Index

Secondary materials also generate fewer carbon emissions compared with primary materials – for example, in the amount of up to 80 % for aluminium and up to 70 % for steel.* At the same time, this strategy avoids the need to extract natural resources and critical raw materials. The circularity principle therefore also contributes to a more effective mitigation of the risks associated with the extraction of primary materials, ranging from potential availability issues in light of market or political developments through to risks connected with environmental and social standards.
Purchasing and supplier network

Any secondary materials used by the BMW Group must meet the same high standards as primary materials in terms of quality, safety and reliability.  GRI Index: 3-3

* Based on the Gabi database.

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Investments in resource-friendly technologies
Via its own venture capital fund, the BMW Group also invests in key technologies that can make a decisive contribution to achieving carbon neutrality and conserving natural resources. For example, through BMW i Ventures, we have held a stake in the US start-up Lilac Solutions since 2021. Lilac Solutions is pursuing the goal of extracting lithium from the brine of saltwater deposits using ion exchangers in a far more eco- and resource-friendly way than previously possible. During the period under report, we continued to invest in the resource-conserving extraction of lithium by acquiring a stake in the company Mangrove Lithium.
Its innovative technology makes it possible to refine and process both virgin and recycled lithium directly into battery-grade lithium using a special procedure. An additional focus of our investments via BMW i Ventures is on an innovative process for carbon-free steel production developed by US start-up Boston Metal.

Resource management at all BMW Group sites
Resource efficiency and the control of the use of resources in general are integral parts of the environmental management system in place across the BMW Group’s global production network. Alongside carbon emissions, the other key variables are energy and potable water consumption, the volume of waste generated and the use of VOC solvents. The BMW Group intends to reduce its energy and potable water consumption, waste for disposal, and the amount of solvents used per vehicle produced by 25 % in each category by 2030 (base year 2016).

A steering committee manages the international environmental protection network within the BMW Group. Each separate facility, area and building is assigned to an internal operator who is responsible for the technical systems in their area and the smooth running of processes and workflows as well as their environmental impact.1

A certified environmental management system in accordance with ISO 14001 has been implemented at all BMW Group production sites. Moreover, all German and Austrian sites are certified under the EMAS environmental management system. The
BMW Group coordinates its environmental protection measures covering the areas Emissions, Water, Waste, Training/Qualifications and Environmental Management System in a total of five competence centres located worldwide. Environmental improvements that have proven effective at one location are then implemented at other locations to the extent possible. Continuous further training and the exchange of experience within the workforce ensure that relevant knowledge is transferred and that learnings are applied throughout the organisation. In the year under report, our environmental management system again made a major contribution to ensuring that there were no significant environmental incidents involving the payment of fines throughout the production network.

Water
In terms of water consumption in production, the BMW Group aims to continuously optimise the circulation systems at its plants, for example by expanding the purification stages in wastewater treatment at the Leipzig plant. The specific potable water  consumption 2, 3, 4  of the automobile production at 1.90 m3 per vehicle produced is almost on the same level as the prevoius year (2021: 1.91 m3 ).
Water consumption in detail

Waste
In its efforts to reduce the total volume of waste, the BMW Group uses recycling and preparation concepts that are adapted to the specific waste streams at its various plants as well as to regionally applicable statutory regulations and locally available waste management structures. In 2022, a total of 99.3 % 5 (2021:
99.2 %) of the waste generated by production was either recycled or recovered. The BMW Group was able to reduce the proportion of waste for disposal per vehicle produced 6 by a solid 5.5 % to
2.74 kg compared with the previous year (2021: 2.90 kg). We intend to maintain this high level of recycling and recovery at its

plants in the course of gradually transitioning to electric mobility.
With this goal in mind, we are currently in the process of integrating any newly identified waste streams in our recycling and processing systems.
GRI Index: 306-4, 306-5 Waste generation in detail SASB Index

VOC solvent emissions
The BMW Group cut its VOC solvent emissions per vehicle produced 7, 8 significantly by 12.9 % to 0.61 kg (2021: 0.70 kg) during the year under report. Owing to the progress made in the use of solvent-free substances and the optimisation of our paint shops, we expect a further reduction in emissions levels going forward.
GRI Index: 305-7

to describe the environmental impacts in the aspects register and identify measures for improvement
(e.g. long-term targets).

production (BMW Group plants including BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd., excluding partner plants and contract manufacturing) divided by the number of vehicles produced (BMW Group plants including BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. and partner plants, excluding contract manufacturing).
site does not purchase water from an external supplier, the primary source of supply is counted as potable water. This method applies to the BMW Group plants in San Luis Potosí (Mexico) and
Araquari (Brazil) where groundwater is the main source of supply.

of water consumption per vehicle produced. The previous year’s figure was adjusted for comparison purposes (2021 figure prior to adjustment: 2.15 m3).

(BMW Group plants including BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd., excluding partner plants and contract manufacturing) divided by the number of vehicles produced (BMW Group plants including
BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. and partner plants, excluding contract manufacturing).

process and can be reduced by deploying new painting technologies.

(BMW Group plants including BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd., excluding partner plants and contract manufacturing) divided by the number of vehicles produced (BMW Group plants including
BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. and partner plants, excluding contract manufacturing).

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Biodiversity
The BMW Group also takes biodiversity into account at all its locations. As part of this strategy, we endeavour to minimise any potentially negative impacts caused by its production and construction activities. In addition, after analysing biodiversity with the help of relevant biodiversity indicators, we identify targeted measures with a view to creating natural habitats at selected sites or when planning the construction of any new buildings.
With this strategy, we want not only to help preserve, but also to improve on biodiversity in and around our sites. GRI Index: 304-2

Energy use and carbon emissions
The BMW Group intends to reduce carbon emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) at all the locations of the BMW Group by a further
80 % on average per vehicle produced in comparison to 2019 by
2030. Production accounts for the majority of the BMW Group’s
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. In order to reduce emissions, we remain committed to a combined approach of implementing additional energy efficiency measures, increasing the volume of in-house electricity generated from renewable sources, buying in green electricity from direct supply contracts and using certificates of origin.

The remaining emissions are largely attributable to the use of natural gas. In this respect, the BMW Group faces the challenge of replacing natural gas with non-fossil energy sources such as biogas, green hydrogen or green electricity. However, the physical availability of alternative energy sources, the retrofitting of the technical systems and political framework conditions largely define the speed of the transition.

Since 2021, the BMW Group has made the remaining carbon emissions generated at its own plants and sites completely carbon-neutral by balance sheet through the use of voluntary compensation certificates.1 Compensation of site-related carbon emissions

Energy management and efficiency
The BMW Group continuously invests in improving the energy efficiency of its worldwide production network. With further optimisation measures in mind, processes are in place throughout the organisation to facilitate the planning and implementation of energy management measures. In this context, clear roles – in each case with corresponding responsibilities, targets and reporting obligations – are assigned to central strategy departments, regional management units and plants at local level.

In response to the ongoing tight supply situation for semiconductor components, restrictions due to the coronavirus pandemic and the impact of the war in Ukraine, production at BMW Group plants had to be repeatedly adjusted during the year under report.
As a result, production volumes and therefore absolute energy consumption decreased slightly year-on-year. In conjunction with the transformation towards electric mobility, sites are being and have been modified, expanded and newly developed, such as the Lydia plant in China in 2022. Energy consumption in detail, GRI Index: 302-1, 302-4

The amount of energy used specifically for vehicle production increased slightly to 2.13 MWh per vehicle (2021: 2.10 MWh;
+ 1.4 %). In absolute terms, energy consumption decreased slightly year-on-year to 6,295,990 MWh (2021: 6,476,955 MWh;

Renewable energy
Worldwide, all Group production sites 5 and the majority of its other sites use electricity derived from renewable sources via in-house generation, direct procurement or Energy Attribute
Certificates (e.g. certificates of origin).

At present, the BMW Group is unable to entirely cover its energy needs by generating its own renewable energy and therefore purchases additional electricity from other renewable sources.
An increasing share of our electricity requirements is covered by so-called Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs), i.e. direct purchases from defined renewable energy generation plants, such

Energy consumption per vehicle produced2, 3, 4

in MWh

as the purchase of regional green electricity to produce the
BMW iX 6 and BMW i4 6.

The complex energy issues that have arisen in the wake of the war in Ukraine serve to reinforce the BMW Group’s declared strategy of becoming more independent of fossil fuels. We are therefore currently in the process of auditing all our production sites to ascertain whether natural gas can be dispensed with and replaced by sources such as biogas, hydrogen or geothermal energy.

GHG Protocol.

automobile production (BMW Group plants including BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd., excluding partner plants and contract manufacturing) divided by the number of units produced (BMW Group plants including BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. and partner plants, excluding contract manufacturing).

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

projects that meet strict criteria, such as permanent decarbonisation. Furthermore, for the post-Kyoto phase of the carbon compensation market, we ensure that the emissions saved are not counted twice with the nationally determined contributions for the affected countries in the Paris Climate Agreement. We also see it as important that the projects have a social benefit.
GRI Index: 305-5

Carbon emissions generated by transport logistics
The BMW Group’s Green Transport Logistics project pursues the aim of reducing the emissions generated by transportation within its global production and sales network, using a technologically open approach as well as carbon-efficient energy sources and modes of transportation.

Using second-generation biofuel produced from residual and waste materials, we are reducing our carbon footprint, for example, by selected vehicle transports via sea freight between Europe and South Africa, and as part of a pilot project conducted on public roads to supply the Group’s Munich plant. We are also participating in the “H2Haul” and “HyCET” research projects in order to gain some early experience in the use of hydrogen to power heavy goods vehicles.

About half of the vehicles produced by the BMW Group leave its plants by rail. In Germany, a significant volume of rail transport already runs on green power.

CO2emissions per vehicle produced1,2

in t

Carbon emissions at BMW Group locations
Despite lower capacity utilisation at BMW Group plants due to the war in Ukraine, carbon emissions per vehicle produced 1 at
BMW Group locations fell by 3.0 % year-on-year to 0.32 t CO2
(2020: 0.33 t CO2). The figure corresponds to a reduction of
20.0 % compared to the base year 2019.

The absolute carbon emissions generated at BMW Group locations were 7.9 % below the previous year at 705,417 t CO2
(2021: 766,153 t CO2). The mild temperatures and savings driven by the threat of a gas shortage led to a reduction in the use of natural gas for heating purposes.
Carbon footprint GRI Index: 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-5

Compensation of site-related carbon emissions
The carbon emissions either directly or indirectly generated by
BMW Group locations are already within the 1.5°C pathway calculated for the BMW Group. The remaining emissions 3 in the
BMW Group’s carbon footprint Scope 1 and Scope 2 as well as the Scope 3 category “business travel” are neutralised by means of voluntary compensation certificates. The remaining carbon emissions are therefore verifiably compensated by promoting external projects. In cooperation with well-known partners such as atmosfair or First Climate, we support climate protection

method according to GHG Protocol Scope 2 guidance; mainly based on the use of emissions factors for electricity, district heating and fuels of the VDA (each in the most current valid version: 12/2022) and occasionally using local emissions factors; excluding climate-changing gases other than carbon dioxide from vehicle production (BMW Group manufacturing sites including the BMW Brilliance
Automotive Ltd. joint venture and Motorrad, but excluding partner plants and contract manufacturers), as well as BMW Group non-manufacturing sites (e.g. research centres, sales centres, offices) divided by the number of vehicles produced (BMW Group manufacturing sites including the
BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. joint venture and partner plants, but excluding contract manufacturers).

to the carbon emissions generated by production.

GHG Protocol.

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

production materials, raw materials, components, capital goods and services as well as the in-house production of vehicle components.

The main responsibilities of the network include:
— Ensuring security of supply to the plants
— Creating resilient supply chains within the geopolitical

environment

— The quality assurance of components
— Access to innovations
— Cost management in competition
— The digitalisation of processes within the supplier network
— The integration of social and environmental aspects within

the supplier network

Supply chains and supplier network
The year 2022 was dominated by fragile supply chains and rising prices for many materials. The cost drivers for the BMW Group’s
Purchasing team were primarily the price hikes seen for raw materials, semiconductors, energy and transportation coupled with a challenging supply situation. The combined impact of supply bottlenecks for semiconductor components, the temporarily restricted availability of wire harnesses owing to the war in
Ukraine, and pandemic-related lockdowns in China led to production interruptions worldwide, particularly in the first half of the year. Although the situation eased slightly during the second sixmonth period, global supply chains remained in a fragile state.
Outlook, Risks and opportunities

The BMW Group follows the principle of procuring vehicle components close to its production sites to the extent possible and is therefore represented by local teams in all its key purchasing markets, in order to identify risks promptly and respond flexibly to the respective market circumstances. In the face of geostrategic aspects, a resilient strategy for the Group’s supply chains is also becoming increasingly important and the BMW Group takes this fact into account when selecting its partners.

In-house production: a competitive advantage
The BMW Group regularly examines its range of products in terms of their profitability and strategic importance. A special focus is currently on e-mobility. In this central area of transformation, the BMW Group is building up its own skill sets in strategically important components, particularly in areas where technology is not competitively available on the market. The in-house production of certain key components also helps us to improve the level of supply security and thus gain a competitive advantage. At the same time, we are looking to strengthen our process-related expertise in technologies relevant for quality management within the supplier network.

Quality assurance
Quality is a vital competitive factor and of key importance for ensuring customer satisfaction. Our quality experts monitor the entire product development process, including the phases of industrialisation and series production. Regular visits to suppliers and a preventive, systematic review of all processes are aimed at ensuring the agreed quality.

Regional distribution of
BMW Group*

China

Other
Western Europe

North America

Total
€ 85.5 billion

Other

Germany

Eastern Europe

Raw materials security and strategy
The volatile situation on energy and raw materials markets had a major impact on purchasing over the course of 2022. There are signs of increasing competition for the raw materials required to drive forward electric mobility. With the help of measures such as the direct purchase of lithium and cobalt, the BMW Group is making itself technologically and regionally less dependent on individual deposits and suppliers. Direct purchasing in Australia, Argentina and Morocco underpin our dual intention of securing raw material supplies, whilst also maintaining our high sustainability standards, particularly in supply chains involving critical raw materials. At the same time, the BMW Group analyses the development of raw materials prices and hedges against price fluctuations – provided the capital market offers the opportunity to do so. Raw materials price risks and opportunities

* Direct and indirect purchasing;

this includes the entire year 2022 for BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd.

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Our commitment to upholding environmental and social standards as well as human rights in our raw materials supply chains is enshrined in the BMW Group Supplier Code of Conduct and the High-level commitment to sustainable natural rubber among others. The BMW Group Supplier Code of Conduct also requires
Tier-1 suppliers to demand minimum standards within their sub-supplier chains.

Annual risk analyses regarding the BMW Group’s sustainability standards are the starting point for raw materials-related hedging activities that are designed to reduce environmental and human rights risks. Key levers in this respect are to forgo, substitute or reduce the use of primary risk raw materials. We also focus in particular on cooperating closely with our partners in the supplier network as well as in multi-stakeholder initiatives and projects. We use scientific findings to gain an even better understanding of the raw material extraction process and to take it into account accordingly when analysing the level of risk in order to further reduce any negative impacts.

The BMW Group places a particular focus on so-called “conflict minerals” and uses standardised Responsible Minerals Initiative
(RMI) tools to ensure that the raw materials deployed can be traced back to the smelter. It uses existing certifications to ensure the origin of other raw materials. The BMW Group is also involved in developing certified standards for critical stages of the value chain, for example as part of the Initiative for Responsible Mining
Assurance (IRMA), and subsequently applies them. Further details and raw materials profiles are available online. SASB Index

Moreover, the BMW Group has set itself the goal of generating a positive impact for selected raw materials through our involvement in local development projects. During the year under report, for example, we initiated a project with a locally based NGO to improve living conditions associated with the mining of the raw material mica in India.

Purchasing battery cells
As of 2025, the BMW Group plans to deploy a new generation of battery cells. We have therefore concluded agreements with our partners that guarantee annual production capacities of 40 GWh in Europe, 40 GWh in China and 30 GWh in the USA. Via this strategy, the Company is reinforcing its “local for local” approach by sourcing battery cells regionally where our production facilities are located. The BMW Group will also use secondary raw materials to replace the primary raw materials cobalt, lithium and nickel in the new generation of battery cells and purchase green electricity in order to further reduce the size of our carbon footprint in the supply chain. Carbon emissions in the supply chain

Supply security
To cushion the impact of the ongoing war in Ukraine on our
European plants, the BMW Group has introduced a comprehensive raft of measures with its partners and therefore continues to source components from western Ukraine. At the same time, our partners have established additional production sites outside
Ukraine and the supply of wiring harnesses to our plants has returned to normal as a result.

Lockdowns in China designed to contain the coronavirus pandemic kept supply chains on tenterhooks, not to mention the challenging supply situation for semiconductors. In an effort to mitigate the worldwide shortage of semiconductors, among other measures the BMW Group has entered into supply agreements involving increased levels of buffer stock when placing orders, as well as the direct purchase of strategically important semiconductors.

Risk management in purchasing
An interconnected risk management system is fundamental for managing the supplier network. With this point in mind, the
Company has established a RiskHub that analyses information from external, publicly available data sources with regard to potential risks such as natural disasters or financial risks. We also employ state-of-the-art methods derived from the fields of
AI and big data analytics. For selected issues such as semiconductor component supplies, we also take account of the locations of sub-suppliers in our risk assessment, thus enabling us to respond rapidly and counter supply bottlenecks preventively. The RiskHub is subject to continuous improvement.

In order to avoid cyber risks and provide adequate protection, we analyse the entire value chain. The BMW Group expects its partners to provide evidence of a preventive and responsive level of security. We require our partners to provide information security certificates in accordance with the TISAX automotive standard, and monitor their implementation. Collaborative IT security analyses and a constant exchange of information additionally bolster resilience in the supplier network. The awareness of cyber risks is raised internally through training and information campaigns.
Externally, the BMW Group supports its business partners with a regular flow of information.

Innovations
Cooperation in the supplier network based on trust and the development of new partnerships is essential for us when it comes to swiftly deploying innovations in the products on offer. In this context, we work closely with the BMW Startup Garage and BMW i Ventures. At Newcomer Day 2022, selected start-ups presented a broad range of future technologies – including our new partner for innovative natural fibre composite solutions.

The highly innovative achievements of start-ups are also reflected in the BMW Supplier Innovation Award. During the year under report, various companies won awards in the categories of e-mobility, sustainability, digitalisation, customer experience, exceptional team performance and Newcomer of the Year, which are essential for driving forward transformation.

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Digitalisation in the supply chain
A digital flow of information throughout the supply chain is a prerequisite for more resilient and flexible supply chain management.

Catena-X is one of the largest ongoing projects in the automotive industry. It is open to all BMW Group partners and designed to enable data exchange across the various levels of the value chain between automotive manufacturers and their suppliers. With the platform due to be launched in 2023, Catena-X is expected to offer an end-to-end solution that will lead to closer and even more coordinated cooperation between partners. One of our aims is to improve transparency and response speed by regularly comparing the demand and capacity situation in order to adjust the supply of parts at short notice. Further improvements are expected for the network partners, whether raw materials suppliers, n-Tier suppliers or automotive manufacturers, for example in terms of delivery reliability and customer satisfaction. At the same time, costs can be effectively cut by improving capacity utilisation and avoiding special procurement processes. Recording carbon emissions data in supply chains enables measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to be agreed upon and their effectiveness verified going forward. The BMW Group has already begun preparations for the pilot tests of the initial applications.

Social and environmental responsibility
The BMW Group considers responsible supply chain management as an integral part of good corporate governance. Against the backdrop of the Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (Lieferkettensorgfaltspflichtengesetz), the BMW Group continued to develop its well-established processes during the year under report.
The BMW Group’s requirements and the expectations it places on its suppliers are set out in the BMW Group Supplier Code of Conduct. GRI Index: 2-23, 3-3, 407-1, 408-1

Due diligence in the supplier network
A multi-stage due diligence process has been established across all relevant areas of the organisation to delineate our responsibility for the supplier network. A comprehensive description of the due diligence process can be found online.

The BMW Group is committed to the application of standardised procedures and a cooperative approach with a view to implementing the due diligence obligations that are integrated in its business processes and avoiding redundant activities. For this reason, we engage in the Sector Dialogue Automotive Industry initiative, for example to develop guidelines for action and create an industry-wide grievance mechanism.

— Risk analysis

The BMW Group monitors and assesses sustainability and human rights risks in its supplier network, including its business relationships with both potential and active supplier locations. Among other strategies, we use risk filters and media analyses to identify abstract environmental and human rights risks, as well as standardised sustainability questionnaires and audits to conduct specific risk analysis at our
Tier-1 suppliers. Supply chain mapping forms the basis for analysing risks at n-Tier suppliers.
GRI Index: 2-24, 308-1, 414-1

— Prevention and remediation

Prior to signing a contract with the BMW Group, suppliers are required to implement any necessary preventive or remedial measures to minimise potential risks or eliminate any deficits that may have been identified – including those in the areas of corporate governance, human rights and working conditions, health and safety, and environmental protection – by an agreed target date, no later than the start of production, and to demand that these measures are also complied with by subcontractors. Further GRI Information, Sustainability assessment of relevant supplier sites The extent of the preventive measures is partially based on the potential risks, the nature and scope of the business activity and the size of the supplier. Alongside its preventive measures, the BMW Group offers a training programme on sustainability in the supply chain aimed at internal buyers and process partners as well as suppliers. GRI Index: 2-24, 308-2, 414-2

— Effectiveness and grievance mechanisms

For suppliers operating in high-risk regions or high-risk product groups, the BMW Group has implemented additional control mechanisms, such as audits of environmental and social standards at supplier locations using its own auditors or external auditors. The Group reviewed a total of 49 potential and active supplier locations via this method during the year under report (2021: 38)1, 2. We have set ourselves the target of ensuring that all Tier-1 supplier sites that have been audited meet the locally applicable legal requirements for sustainability as well as international human rights standards
(BMW Group minimum requirements). In 2022, the final audits confirmed that all cases of non-compliance with minimum requirements (non-conformities) that were identified in initial audits had been redressed.

The internal Human Rights Contact Supply Chain unit deals with any indications of possible violations of the sustainability requirements stipulated by the BMW Group for the supplier network. We also use the standardised RBA Voices grievance mechanism as a complementary measure. In addition, whistle-blower systems to detect possible legal violations are in place and compliance checks performed. Our aim is to ensure that any substantiated reports of environmental or human rights violations are redressed by agreeing on corrective measures.

of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA).

comparison, as Environmental Performance Assessments (EPA) in China will no longer be included in the metric from 2022 due to the Group’s new environmental and social audit requirements.

Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report

Agreements reached with suppliers regarding carbon reduction measures in production scenarios already began to take effect in 2022. Together with an external auditor, the BMW Group has developed a concept for verifying compliance with these agreements and confirmed compliance with contractually agreed carbon-reducing measures in the supplier chain at 23 suppliers in the course of 2022. As a result, the BMW Group helped reduce carbon emissions at the production facilities of its suppliers by approximately 1.0 million tonnes in the reporting period.4

The Group also continues to rely on the Carbon Disclosure Project
(CDP) supply chain programme to assess supply chain performance in terms of its decarbonisation commitment. Measures relevant for supplier development and empowerment are also derived from the programme. In 2022, 247 suppliers took part in the rating (84 % of the production-relevant purchasing volume).

If necessary, the BMW Group temporarily suspends a given business relationship during efforts to mitigate the detected risk. However, the business relationship will only be terminated if no other effective means are available and we are unable to further leverage our ability to exert influence. We endeavour to avoid this latter situation by carefully selecting our suppliers and empowering and working with them to improve their sustainability performance. No existing supplier relationship needed to be terminated due to serious sustainability violations during the year under report.
GRI Index: 2-24, 3-3, 308-1, 414-1

Carbon emissions in the supply chain
The BMW Group is pressing ahead with its efforts to decarbonise its own supply chain. The Group’s goal is to reduce carbon emissions generated in the supply chain by more than 20 % per vehicle by 2030 (base year 2019) 1. For this reason, the Group has established a firm commitment to make carbon-reducing measures 2 an award criterion in its supplier network. We specifically empower suppliers via the BMW Group Partner Portal and additionally provide face-to-face formats for conducting partner workshops at our plant in Landshut (Germany). GRI Index: 3-3

In 2022, the number of contractual agreements with suppliers on carbon-reducing measures increased to 468 awards (2021: 429 awards), including agreements on the use of secondary raw materials, biomaterials and carbon-reduced steel routes. However, in our view, green electricity offers the greatest potential for reducing carbon emissions in the supply chain. The BMW Group makes its use 2 for direct suppliers (Tier-1) and energy-intensive processes in the upstream chain (n-Tier) a criterion for awarding new contracts to manufacture carbon-intensive components and materials. During the year under report, we concluded agreements for 343 contracts (2021: 427 contracts). In addition, since mid-2021 the BMW Group has concluded framework agreements with 46 of its largest suppliers regarding the use of green electricity 3 to manufacture its components.

not include any compensation measures.

suppliers were not taken into account when calculating the Carbon footprint.