12 | Ready for Tomorrow. Today. | Annual Report 2014-15

The foundation of ‘We are Bosch’ and our corporate culture – the seven values

Future and result focus
Our actions are result-focused. This allows us to secure our future. It also creates a sound basis for the social initiatives of the company and the foundation.

Responsibility and sustainability
We act responsibly in the interest of our company, also taking the social and ecological impact of our actions into consideration.

Initiative and determination
We act on our own initiative, take entrepreneurial responsibility, and pursue our goals with determination.

Openness and trust
We communicate important company matters in a

timely and open fashion. This is the best foundation for a relationship built on trust.

Fairness
We deal fairly with our colleagues and business partners, and view this fairness as a cornerstone of our corporate success.

Reliability, credibility, legality
We promise only what we can deliver, accept agreements as binding, and respect and observe the law in all our business transactions.

Diversity
We appreciate and encourage diversity for the enrichment it brings, and see it as essential for our success.

Support from Robert Bosch GmbH
The support we get from Robert Bosch GmbH, our parent company, and our place in the International Production
Network has enabled us to invest in research and development of technologies specifically for the Indian market and its emission requirements.

Since 1954, the first year of our partnership when we were provided with an initial capital of
INR 57,600, we have received continuous and valuable support from Robert Bosch GmbH in terms of capital, sales and purchase, technology and R&D, and knowledge transfer. In 2008, this support was critical when the company’s name was changed from Motor Industries
Company Limited to Bosch Limited – a change that represented commitment and brought with it ready acceptability with all stakeholders.

Bosch Limited is part of the International Production
Network – besides giving us a worldwide presence, we are able to offer products and components to Robert
Bosch GmbH and receive technical knowledge for processes, quality, and competencies. This support from
Robert Bosch GmbH enables bulk purchase and similar economies of scale that enhance cost-effectiveness.
We have also been made a Center of Competence for selected conventional products.

Technology and R&D support from Robert Bosch
GmbH has allowed us to build on Robert Bosch GmbH
Euro VI expertise for Bharat Stage V and Bharat Stage
VI requirements. We are part of the International
Development and International Testing networks to ensure adherence to Bosch’s global standards and the support received from the Corporate Research arm of Robert Bosch GmbH is used for new business development and innovative products.

Our close relationship with Robert Bosch GmbH fosters continuous and mutually beneficial knowledge transfers
– an essential factor that enhances our future-ready capabilities. The global resource exchange program actively encourages global projects, competency development, and intercultural movements. Robert
Bosch GmbH also provides global training opportunities, particularly for our specialists.

Annual Report 2014-15 | Ready for Tomorrow. Today. | 13

The official unveiling of the new ‘We are Bosch’ mission statement at Bosch’s Bengaluru Plant

Capital support from Robert Bosch GmbH:

 1954 – 1 percent

 March 31, 2015 – 71.18 percent

FII Participation
 1993 – 0.07 percent

 March 31, 2015 – 9.2 percent

Market Capitalization
 1991 – INR 7,229 Mio

 March 31, 2015 – INR 798,191 Mio

Ready for what the future holds

The future is full of challenges, yet each challenge represents an opportunity. This has been the driving force behind our fascination for the future and pursuit of innovation to build a better tomorrow. Over the years, we have developed technologies that transcend time and existing capabilities. We set benchmarks to follow and adapt, and value the fact that in a highly competitive environment, the only way to ensure long-term sustainability is by thinking ahead.

How have we been able to do this? By studying the market, analyzing its needs, identifying new opportunities, and providing solutions that fit our customers’ requirements.
We give our employees all possible avenues and forums to enhance their skill sets and capabilities, making them ready for the future and the challenges it holds. Our continued investment in facilities across the country not only enhances our market reach, it underscores our belief in the India growth story, thus making a significant, positive impact on millions. Being fiscally responsible has helped us secure our financial independence and allowed us to invest in a future-oriented outlook.

For us, the future is not a far-fetched dream, but an inevitable reality full of possibilities waiting to be explored.
In our quest to deliver a prospective world of advanced technologies, we have set benchmarks not only in quality and standards, but also in finding new ways to protect and preserve the planet.

In the pages that follow, we showcase our approaches to addressing emerging market opportunities, tapping and developing the potential of our employees and business partners, offering technologies that enhance the quality of life, improving and growing our infrastructure, and securing our financial independence. These are the approaches that ensure we are ready for tomorrow, today.

At the global level, Bosch’s mobility solutions business combines the group’s expertise in three mobility trends – automation, electrification, and connectivity – and enables it to offer its customers integrated mobility solutions. Its main areas of activity are injection technology and powertrain peripherals for internal-combustion engines, diverse solutions for powertrain electrification, safety and driver-assistance systems, technology for user-friendly infotainment as well as car-to-car and car-to-x communication, repair-shop concepts, and technology and services for the automotive aftermarket. Bosch has been responsible for important automotive innovations such as electronic engine management, common-rail diesel technology, and the ESP anti-skid system.There are three key drivers especially important for the Indian automotive segment: upcoming emission legislation, fuel economy, and total cost of ownership. Lately, there has also been an increased focus on driving comfort. Our dedication to conserving natural resources and protecting and preserving the environment ensures we are aligned with upcoming emission legislation and We are ready to cater to the Indian and export market through a high-quality, comprehensive systems approach. Through investing in infrastructure and machinery that will help in developing and producing technologies of the future, we aim to meet regional needs of both innovation and affordability.the vehicle owner’s quest for better fuel economy. Bosch, as a worldwide market leader in powertrain solutions, offers a wide range of solutions for different requirements, market segments, and markets.Environmental concerns have led to the introduction, definition or planning of a progressive series of emission legislation by the Indian government – Bharat Stages IV, V, and VI, as well as the “star rating” for fuel economy. Powertrains will have to emit less CO2, particulate matter, and NOx. We are prepared to support a diverse set of requirements and to adapt our technology locally, as far as required. Localization of technologies available at the global level also reduces total cost of ownership. Importing these technologies and offering them to the Indian market as they are would make them too expensive for customers. Besides, unique Indian traffic conditions demand specific local adaptation to make them effective – changes that our strong research and development team is uniquely positioned to deliver.The cost-consciousness of the Indian consumer is also a strong driver – spurring us to develop low-cost solutions Ready for the Indian automotive market now and tomorrowBosch’s Chassis Dynamometer testing facility at the Technical Center India, Bengaluru, used for emission testing Market Ready14 | Ready for Tomorrow. Today. | Annual Report 2014-15
“Parts, Bytes, and Services”that help improve fuel efficiency in not just the passenger car segment, but also in commercial vehicles, especially for low-price vehicles. To enable our customers to provide vehicles that reduce emissions and improve efficiency, we have developed several products that address both these concerns in diesel- and gasoline-fuelled vehicles. Our Diesel Systems business has a wide variety of solutions for applications in the Indian market that are still being developed and refined to suit the local requirements. These include improved fuel injection systems that integrate the inlet fuel metering concept for improved fuel efficiency for passenger cars. To meet emission norms, we have developed Diesel Particulate Filter systems for the passenger car segment, Selective Catalytic Reduction solutions for the heavy commercial vehicles segment and lean Exhaust Gas Treatment systems for the light commercial vehicle segment. Our Gasoline Systems business is ready to meet future market requirements with Port Fuel Injection (PFI) systems to meet most stringent emission levels as well as Gasoline Direct Injection (GDI) for further improved fuel economy. We also have a Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) system that is ready for customers as a single Engine Control Unit (ECU) or add-on ECU offering. As India is one of the biggest two-wheeler markets in the world and is further expected to grow steadily in the long term, we have Electronic Fuel Injection (EFI) systems designed especially for two-wheelers to perform in Indian conditions now and in the future too.Bosch has been the leading provider of groundbreaking automotive technologies and services for over nine decades in India. The changing demographics of the country, the growing economy, and legislative changes require agility and adaptability in our responses to market demands.Our Automotive Aftermarket division’s Parts, Bytes, and Services concept has enabled us to adapt to the fast-changing landscape of the Indian automotive market. In the OE business, we are growing fast in market share, especially with respect to our three product groups: spark plugs, filtration, and automotive service solutions. The rise in the number of new products, sophisticated services, and the increasing influx of electronics have become the key market drivers for our automotive service solutions. We have also introduced new market schemes for tractors, gensets and diesel customers. For the independent automotive aftermarket, we increased our product portfolio in filtration, lighting, braking, auto electrical, diagnostic equipment, and test benches, and will further expand our range across business units to widen our local-for-local array of products.Our sales network is expanding at a steady pace and Our Automotive Aftermarket division is the largest aftermarket network in the country, with a reach that is only increasing through an expanding sales network and growing number of distributors and workshops.the establishment of Bosch authorized service solution distributors has helped strengthen our presence in the diagnostic solutions market. With 300 newly appointed distributors, we have been able to substantially increase our market presence and market share for Bosch parts within the country.Newer and improved workshop concepts similar to two-wheeler service, Tractor Point and Bosch Diesel Service (components) have also been undertaken to penetrate new markets and attract more customers. We plan to extend the Bosch workshop concept to the truck segment with an Express Truck Service in the wake of increasing electronic control unit (ECU) based commercial vehicles. Through the introduction of innovative market schemes and integrating a dedicated channel approach, we seek to serve a wider customer base and simplify the existing purchase process, so as to increase market share and broaden our brand reach.An authorized distributor of Bosch’s Automotive Aftermarket productsAnnual Report 2014-15 | Ready for Tomorrow. Today. | 15
From reaching out to new customers through online channels and brand stores to localizing products that don’t compromise on quality, our non-automotive businesses are geared up to meet the demands of a vibrant, growing nation.In the non-automotive segment, our Power Tools, Energy, and Security Systems businesses have come up with several innovative products and technologies to serve the present and future needs. By venturing into new portfolios, we seek to provide products and technologies that make a tangible improvement in the quality of life of millions of Indians.Ready for India’s future Power ToolsWith a view to reach the new and upcoming user base and fulfill various consumer needs, Bosch Power Tools has enhanced its presence across traditional hardware dealers, retailers, modern trade, segment specialists, and the new addition of E-retailers. To further improve market coverage and brand reach, the division has opened 60 new dealerships and nine new Brand stores across various cities within a year. Besides offering a wide range of home, hobby, and garden products, these state-of-the-art stores also sell an array of utilities ranging from solar products to BSH home appliances and security systems.With India’s demographic skewing, with younger and more of the population online, the e-commerce sector in the country continues to witness tremendous growth. Our Power Tools division started using this channel to reach new customers two years ago and by the year 2020, we aim to increase our market share considerably. To achieve this, we have ramped up production and will be shifting the production plant from Bengaluru to Chennai for a more cost-effective and enhanced capacity to deal with the rising demand expected in the near future.Security SystemsBosch Security Systems offers state-of-the-art safety, surveillance, and communication solutions across major metros, refineries, industrial complexes, residential apartments, stadia, sensitive high-profile buildings, hotels, and top corporate houses. Our service excellence and quality have enabled us to serve a number of prominent ventures including metro rail projects, airport security, city and market surveillance, and traffic management solutions across cities. As the country’s infrastructure development gathers pace, we expect growing demand for high-end security and communication solutions as well as affordable, local-for-local products targeting the price-conscious market. EnergyWith several notable project successes, our Thermotechnology business is ready to acquire major projects in the country in the commercial and industrial boilers and solar thermal systems segments. We aim to continuously introduce new products in the country that are first-in-market offerings, adapting international technologies for local needs.After empanelment as a channel partner with the Government of India, a number of new and diverse market opportunities have opened up for us within the energy sector. Our expertise in the energy efficiency domain has been honed through the implementation of in-house projects such as the photovoltaic system implemented at our Nashik Plant. Our ability to handle large-capacity and high-volume operations have won us prestigious projects such as the 12 megawatt (MW) Cochin International Airport Limited solar power installation, positioning us as a strong and quality player in the engineering, procurement, and construction (EPC) segment.Bosch’s power tools on display at the Brand store on Sarjapur Road, Bengaluru16 | Ready for Tomorrow. Today. | Annual Report 2014-15
Ready with PeopleThrough integrated talent management, programs to identify and nurture the next generation of leaders, strengthening associate competencies and skills, and dedicated supplier development initiatives, we ensure our most important resources are ready for the future.Meeting current market requirements, predicting future needs, and conceptualizing appropriate solutions would not be possible without the right people.Our founder, Robert Bosch, stressed the importance of employing the right people with the required skill sets for any role within the company. For us at Bosch Limited, being ready for the world of tomorrow and the challenges it holds means that we have to continue to focus on recruiting, retaining, and developing the best talent. We have put in place a number of programs that enable not just our employees, but also our suppliers and dealers, to align themselves with the Bosch way and achieve their full potential.We have a number of programs in place to develop the skills and competencies of the next generation of leaders at Bosch.Annual Report 2014-15 | Ready for Tomorrow. Today. | 17
Integrated talent managementTalent management is one of the key areas of focus for us. In 2014, we kicked off the global automation of the talent management process with the launch of tools under the “HR Global” program. Correspondingly, an organization-wide initiative on “Integrated Talent Management” was launched last year, aimed at identifying, developing, and adequately remunerating those employees who are key to business success. Cultivating the next generation of leaders No matter how talented an employee is, she or he needs clear direction for proper career development. Inspiring leadership and mentorship plays an important role here. Bosch Limited has always encouraged and supported the development of those employees who show leadership skills and potential. Our leadership development process has multiple facets and numerous steps that help in evaluation of potential, incorporating management development programs that foster the required skills.Identifying the next generation of leaders is done through a “Talent and Associate Review” mechanism that initially includes a potential-oriented interview with employees, and thereafter, a cross-validation of identified potential through the “potential validation” meeting. The employee then has to undergo an evaluation at the assessment screening center and has to attend various leadership development programs organized and coordinated by the Bosch Training Center in India.With a view to ensure a steady supply of right talent to the leadership pipeline, we carry out “Succession Planning” for all the key positions in the organization. The objective is to ensure that at all points in time, key positions are not only occupied, but that a successor is also identified to enable business continuity. Succession planning reviews are normally done on a half yearly basis to ensure review and development of identified successors.In order to attract those young talents who can be groomed to become the leaders of tomorrow, Bosch Limited has implemented initiatives like the Junior Management Program (JMP), Technical Management Trainee (TMT), and Commercial Management Trainee (CMT). The JMP, a fast-track leadership program, ensures that a young employee with leadership potential is given the cross-functional, cross-divisional, cross-location, and international exposure over a period of eight to ten years to become a department head. Through the TMT program, Bosch Limited hires talented engineers from the top 10 engineering colleges of India and through the CMT, the company partners with institutes such as the Indo-German Training Center (IGTC) to provide internships and training to promising students.A performance-oriented organizationBesides talent management, it is necessary for an organization that looks to be ready for the future to make itself performance oriented. At Bosch Limited, we have a stable and mature performance management system, designed to build a performance culture in the organization. This system comprises many elements, including goal setting policy deployment workshops, provision for mid-year performance appraisals and annual appraisals at the end of the year.Low-performing employees identified through this process have to undergo a “Performance Improvement Plan” that guides them in improving their workplace productivity and performance.Strengthening competencies and skillsContinuous training and development programs that improve our employees’ job-specific skill sets are vital for making them future-ready. With the roll-out of the HR Global tool, TrainM, employees can themselves decide on the training they want to attend and also get the benefit of bundled training programs that are recognized across all of Bosch’s international locations.In order to empower our employees further, we develop in-house trainers and give them a global platform. Besides standard training programs, employees can also focus on development of strategic competencies such as “Leadership for change” and “Out-of-the-box-thinking”, among others. Training is also provided for social competencies.Our workmen – who receive one of the best salaries and welfare benefits in the industry – are key to our long-term business success. They are highly skilled graduates of the Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs), certified by the National Council for Vocational Training (NCVT). They are provided need-based hard skills training with the support of the Technical Commercial Training (TCT) center to keep them up-to-date on the latest technologies and developments. Training in the soft skills is not ignored – workmen can benefit from programs designed to change mindsets, team development activities, change management, and customer orientation.Employee engagement activities such as “Suggestion Scheme”, “Point CIP”, “Samakshama” and others have been created especially for our workmen, motivating them to be part of our endeavour to be fit for the future.18 | Ready for Tomorrow. Today. | Annual Report 2014-15
Supplier and dealer developmentOur supplier development program ranges from a comprehensive selection process to improving competencies and maturity and finally, qualification to deliver to the entire Bosch network as an “essential supplier”.To be future-ready, we need to consider all aspects of human resources in our business ecosystem. Employees are one critical part of this, but suppliers and dealers also play an important role for us to be assured of business success in the India of tomorrow.Our supplier development program comprises two levels. In the first level, we provide classroom training for our suppliers, which focusses on basic competency development. This basic training includes five modules that train them on our quality tools and systems, special processes, Lean tools, business management, and technical modules.The second level of the program includes deployment of Lean tools and systems. We identify and eliminate waste across the supplier’s value streams using project-specific tools. The deployment of these tools is based on clear assessment of the present level of competency in terms of people, systems, and processes. After identifying gaps, suitable remedial modules are implemented. “Diversity is our advantage”The ability to embrace different ways of thinking, experience, leadership styles, and work approaches has become part of the Bosch tradition and the way we see ourselves. This diversity is also playing an ever larger part in our daily work environment. Diversity is one of the seven Bosch values and the “Diversity Initiative” was launched to promote greater diversity across the organization in the future. Since becoming a signatory on the “Charter of Diversity” in December 2007, Bosch committed itself to diversity – this means that the business officially accepts the obligation to appreciate and treasure diversity. We focus on four aspects of diversity: gender, generation, internationality, and culture.Studies from across the world have shown that the most successful form of cooperation is in a mixed team. For a company like ours, focused as we are on being ready for the future, it is essential to have such teams. These are the teams that generate a greater number of innovations and better solutions, and display greater creativity. As a result, they help deliver increased company profits – thus diversity is an important asset that is vital for our business success. At Bosch Limited, in order to encourage gender diversity – one of the four defined dimensions of diversity in the global initiative – we are consciously focusing on attracting and retaining qualified women professionals and systematically promoting women associates.Our suppliers are given a time frame within which to deliver clear results and system improvements.Our Automotive Aftermarket division has dealer development programs in place that help improve the competence of workshop networks from individual products to vehicle systems. We also help them upgrade different software and hardware tools to offer the right solutions for the various vehicle brands in the Indian market.It has always been the aim at Bosch Limited to deliver the latest in technology and best-in-class products, and we know that it takes the most brilliant of minds and razor-sharp skills to be at the forefront of innovation. All our efforts directed towards providing experiential learning and cultivating responsible individuals help us in achieving ever higher benchmarks of operational excellence – today, tomorrow, and beyond.At Bosch, we truly believe that diversity is our advantage and focus on four aspects of diversity: gender, generation, internationality, and culture.Annual Report 2014-15 | Ready for Tomorrow. Today. | 19
20 | Ready for Tomorrow. Today. | Annual Report 2014-15

Ready with Technology

Powertrain technologies that meet emerging market needs and leaner, more agile processes ensure we are ready with technology solutions for the India of tomorrow.

Bosch Limited has always strived to stay ahead of the curve to pre-empt changes in technology and government regulations, in order to be prepared for future challenges. To meet the demands of the Indian market now and in the years ahead, we are ready with affordable, innovative products and systems that meet the highest quality standards and address the key drivers in the Indian automotive market: emission norms, fuel economy, and total cost of ownership.

Powertrain technologies of the future

Right now, vehicles in Indian metro cities have to comply with Bharat Stage IV while the rest of the country has to comply with Bharat Stage III. The emission legislation roadmap shows that by 2017 the whole country will have to comply with stage IV norms and two years later, India as a whole will have to meet Bharat Stage V requirements. To move towards stage V, diesel vehicles need the latest fuel injection technology of 1600 bar/1800 bar along with exhaust gas treatments. This makes it imperative for companies like Bosch Limited to be ready with the technology that meets these future emission requirements, today. Our almost 400-strong
R&D workforce have a state-of-the-art facility to work on developing Bharat Stage V technologies.

For the Indian market, we have a wide variety of diesel system solutions for different applications that we are in the process of developing further. For low-price vehicles
(LPV), we have Common Rail System (CRS) innovations that will result in improved fuel efficiency of up to eight percent. The third generation LPV CRS includes Inlet
Fuel Metering and a modular concept from one to four cylinders. The system is designed in such a way that it can be applied as an easy upgrade to the existing engine to meet future emission norms – a low-cost solution for this price-conscious market.

In the commercial vehicle segment, our DeNOx system
(Denox6.5) will support these vehicles to gain high NOx conversion rates of up to 95 percent, thus complying with future emission norms. This system solution will also help commercial vehicles reduce their fuel consumption by

up to five percent. For the off-highway segment, we have low-cost Inline Pumps with extended pressure capability for up to 200kW. For the Genset market we have products that offer robust and extendable solutions.

Our Gasoline Systems business has developed an extensive portfolio of attractive solutions geared towards developed as well as emerging markets. The Advanced
Port Fuel Injection system (A-PFI) helps in reducing
CO2 emissions by up to 12 percent and increase lowend torque by up to 40 percent. The A-PFI also enlarges performance range and reduces hydrocarbon emissions by 20 percent. This is a cost-effective upgrade to existing PFI technology, thus meeting the cost-conscious requirements of the Indian market.

Global OEMs already use Gasoline Direct Injection (GDI) technology on Indian roads. GDI is expected to increase its penetration in the Indian market in the near future
– and it has higher benefits than A-PFI with around 15 percent increase in fuel efficiency and almost 50 percent low-end torque.

To increase fuel efficiency and reduce emissions, another technology solution we have on offer is a low-cost transmission concept, the two-pedal e-Clutch.
The system add-on cost of this solution is less than an
Automated Manual Transmission (AMT). This concept can be applied on all passenger cars and utility vehicles in both gasoline and diesel version. There is also potential for extending it to light commercial vehicles and retrofit.

28 | Directors’ Report including Management Discussion and Analysis | Annual Report 2014-15execution in large scale projects in the public sector domain and tight credit situation. Packaging industry grew by around 8 percent in 2014. The growth was facilitated due to labour availability constraints and increased secondary packaging requirements. The trend towards premium bag styles and aseptic packaging was on a rise. Biscuits and snack foods were the biggest market segments for packaging industry.Renewable Energy sector and Solar PV industry in specific gained impetus with the revised target of the National Solar Mission to 100,000 MW by 2022. The Government also supported faster execution of projects through the verdict on the non-applicability of anti-dumping duties for imports from some countries which include USA and China. The installations in India grew by nearly 850 MW in 2014 crossing the installed base to over 3000 MW. 3.3 Business and segment wise performance The overall performance of the Company was satisfactory with a growth of 10.3 percent on an annualized basis. The growth driver was the automotive segment which posted an annualized growth of 11.1 percent. The non-automotive business grew by 4.8 percent on an annualized basis. Both domestic and export sales witnessed an annualized increase of over 10 percent largely on account of rise in sales of diesel products. The Company predominantly operates in manufacturing and trading of automotive products which constitutes 88 percent of total sales. The Company also has its presence in non-automotive areas (comprising of Industrial Technology, Consumer Goods and Energy and Building Technology) having a share of 12 percent. Hence, the primary segment of the Company is classified as ‘Automotive and Non-automotive’ while the Revenue from various geographical location of customers (domestic and export) is classified as the secondary segment.3.3.1 Primary SegmentThe share of automotive products increased from 87 percent in the previous year to 88 percent for the fifteen months period ended March 31, 2015.AutomotiveThe automotive segment registered an annualized growth in sales by 11.1 percent and stood at Mio INR 102,979. The Diesel Systems business increased by 13.8 percent on an annualized basis. The increase was led by higher sales volume of new generation Common The Bosch K4000 Rally being flagged off at Kanyakumari, Tamil Nadu (left). The initiative, which took place over three weeks in February 2015 reached 58,600 Automotive Aftermarket customers across 680 locations in India. At ACMA AutomechanikaNew Delhi (right), the Company showcased the best of its mobility solutions.The Common Rail System for passenger cars with solenoid injectors: its features include pressure range from 1600 to 2000 bar, performance-optimized CRS with improved multiple injection functionality and closed-loop control for small quality tolerances.
Annual Report 2014-15 | Directors’ Report including Management Discussion and Analysis | 29 Rail Systems (CRS) and distributor pumps. The Diesel Systems business will continue to ride heavily on new generation CRS for future growth in majority of vehicle segments. The conventional products likein-line pumps & nozzles continued with steady demand.The Company pursued segment specific “local for local” approach with strong focus on total cost of ownership, resulting in competitive advantage to improve market share. It also engaged in CO2 reduction measures with efficiency improvement packages on products in line with the expected BS IV emission norms in the near future and eventually BS V and BS VI. The Automotive Aftermarket division fared moderately in a sluggish business environment during the period under review. The division registered an annualized growth of 3.0 percent. The muted growth is due to competitive pricing in some of the product classes and the tight money market. The year also saw an increase in product portfolio in filtration, lighting, braking, auto electrical, diagnostic scanners and test benches. The Company has increased its market presence by adding 300 new distributors. The Bosch service network continues to be the largest independent service network in India.The Starter Motors and Generators business witnessed annualized growth of 5.5 percent. Growth was driven by the increased volumes of New Baseline starter motors and generators.The Gasoline business grew annualized by 52.2 percent, mainly on account of increased market share in the domestic passenger car market.Share of domestic and export sales in total sale of automotive segment remained constant as in previous year. In the automotive segment, 87 percent of the sales were derived from domestic market. The share of export sales to the total sales of the segment was 13 percent during the period under review. Non-AutomotiveIndustrial Technology (Packaging Technology and Industrial Equipment):The Industrial Technology segment declined by 6.4 percent on an annualized basis. The decline was mainly due to lower order intakes and one time orders in 2013.Packaging TechnologyThe Packaging Technology division annualized growth remained constant. Newly developed products have been well received in the market and encourage future development activities.Industrial EquipmentThe Industrial Equipment division reported an annualized decline of 12.2 percent due to onetime orders in 2013 (which would not be repeated) and decline in domestic sales.Consumer Goods (Power Tools):The Power Tools business increased at an annualized growth of 9.0 percent despite tight market sentiments. This growth was supported by e-commerce and modern retail channels, focusing on the urban and home user segments. It also gained momentum through the industrial and institutional segment as well as from emerging product lines of lawn and garden, measuring tools and the Dremel multi-tool systems.The period under review witnessed new campaigns, product launches and brand stores. The premium retail store concept – Bosch System Specialist (BSS) – has created a niche in the market with its positioning as a total solutions provider for Power Tools while giving customers a delightful shopping experience. Energy and Building Technology (Security Technology, Bosch Energy & Building Solutions and Thermotechnology):The Energy and Building Technology segment witnessed a marginal decline of 0.2 percent on an annualized basis. Security TechnologyThe Security Technology business declined by 1.2 percent due to general slowdown in the market and delays in implementation of infrastructure projects. Projects successfully executed in 2014 included conference systems for two state assemblies, video systems for a huge steel plant and fire detection systems for a leading residential apartment project. Trend-setting products in various verticals were introduced in the market and were well received. Bosch Energy & Building SolutionsThough the division had a good initial breakthrough with scalable solutions into the energy efficiency Bosch System Specialist (BSS) is a premium retail concept that enables an existing authorized Bosch Power Tool dealer to set up an attractive, best-in-class display of the latest and most innovative Bosch Power Tools. The first BSS store focusing exclusively on the construction industry opened in 2014 in Chennai, Tamil Nadu.
Annual Report 2014-15 | Annexures to the Report of the Directors | 45

Annexure ‘A’ to the Report of the Directors

[Pursuant to Section 217(1)(e) of The Companies Act, 1956]

Ventilation system for parameter optimization

1. Specific Areas in which R&D was carried out:

Conservation of energy

Energy conservation initiatives receive highest priority across all locations. They are not only driven by cost factors but also because of our strong commitment towards reducing carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. The Company has set specific CO2 reduction targets for 2020. Some of the measures have yielded very good results during January 2014 – March 2015

(a) Measures taken during the year

Utilization improvement of low energy furnaces and batch quantity optimization

Annual DG energy reduction from 1.5 percent to 1 percent

Elimination of Piscal cleaning for salt quenched components

ECO mode operation on MAE by optimizing working of auxiliary equipments

• Optimization of speed for ventilation system

through speed controller

Conversion from Delta to Star connection for overrated motors

Energy saving device for factory lighting

• Optimized use of compressor system

Use of Fiber Glass Reinforced Plastic (FRP) blades in place of metallic in blowers

Coolant motor optimization on Junker and
EMAG machines

Reducing the pneumatic pressure from 6 to 5.2

Introduction of ON delay and OFF delay timer for switching on and off of bore well pump

Replacing old CFLs with LED lights

Tempering of induction hardened parts in tempering oven (2 kW) instead of a 62 kW tempering furnace

Temperature reduction in cleaning machine

Capacitor installation in FCM area motors > 15

Voltage optimization at the 433 V substation

Usage of portable compressor on Sundays and holidays

(b) Additional proposals being implemented

Introduction of heat pumps for washing machines in Heat Treatment shop

Solar power project at Nashik Plant

Projects in HVAC area

Projects on lighting (LED lighting and voltage optimization)

Energy efficiency motors for exhaust units

Efficiency improvement of motors >2kW

Centralized chiller for Y stage machines in hangar to reduce heat load

Impact of the above measures

During the year 2014, the implementation of energy conservation measures has resulted in net electrical energy savings of 17.0 mio kWh.

Technology absorption

(a) Research and Development

Fuel Injection Equipment - Diesel Systems:

Segment specific local approach pursued for whole Indian market with strong focus on total cost of ownership giving a competitive advantage.

In the passenger car segment, with proposed scenario of Bharat Stage V (BS V) in 2019 as per the draft Auto Fuel policy, the Company is engaged in CO2 reduction measures with efficiency improvement packages on products.

• For emerging markets, DeNox systems are being applied in the commercial vehicle segment as new business potential.

• Low cost inline pumps with extended pressure

capability for < 200kW genset market is developed as extension of conventional products within the local market.

Gasoline Systems:

• 2 wheeler EMS and associated component

development.

• Low cost transmission concepts (E-Clutch).

• Alternate fuel systems (CNG).

• Extensions of EMS Technology in the Light
Passenger Vehicle (LPV) to BS IV, BS V and
CNG – LPV applications.

Starter Motors and Generators:

• Design and development of a new variant of
Baseline Generator for further penetration in passenger car segment of the Indian market

• Design and development of gear reduction
Starter Motor with protection features for off-highway application

44 | Financials at a glance | Annual Report 2014-15Primary segmentSecondary segmentAutomotive salesNon-automotive salesCapital expenditure percentage to salesLocation-wise capital expenditureAutomotiveOthers100%80%60%40%20%0%20102011201220132015*9%10%11%13%91%87%90%89%% of Sales12%88%DomesticExport100%80%60%40%20%0%20102011201220132015*13%12%11%12%87%88%8789%% of Sales12%88%DomesticExport100%80%60%40%20%0%20102011201220132015*14%14%12%13%86%87%86%88%% of Automotive Sales13%87%DomesticExport100%80%60%40%20%0%20102011201220132015*2%5%6%6%98%94%95%94%% of Non - Automotive Sales7%93%200004000600080000.00%2.00%4.00%6.00%8.00%10.00%2011201220132015*2010Capex (In Mio INR)Investment Amount (Mio INR)Investment % of SalesCapex / Sales (%)Nashik, 50%Bangalore, 39%39.0%10.4%4.1%1.8%2.2%28.4%13.6%0.5%BengaluruBidadiChennaiGangaikondanJaipurNaganathapuraNashikVernaSALES PERFORMANCESEGMENT-WISE SALESCAPITAL EXPENDITURE2015* represents fifteen months period starting from January 2014 to March 2015
46 | Annexures to the Report of the Directors | Annual Report 2014-15

Annual Report 2014-15 | Annexures to the Report of the Directors | 47

Spark Plugs:

• Localization of higher grade ceramic for cost

effectiveness

Technical Centre, India has been a key focus to enable product, system and new solutions for the local needs.

• Spark plug with precious metal contents on

2. Benefits derived:

electrodes for better durability

Glow Plug and Glow Control Units:

• Series production of new platform with

reduced tip diameter

• GLP (GLP2E): Completion of development for

the emerging market

• Test facility upgrade to cover state-of-the-art

Starting Device products

• Local competency established for Selective
Catalytic Reduction system engineering and calibration
2. Benefits derived

The initiatives have resulted in benefits for our customers and the end users, as enumerated below:

• Reducing exhaust emissions
• Improving fuel economy and consequent

reduction in CO2

• Optimum cost/benefit ratio for system

solutions
Future plan of action:

• Build up competence in engine management solutions for technologies beyond BS V norms

• Projects on energy conservation to enable

reduced CO2 emissions thereby reducing the carbon footprint

• Product portfolios relevant to the low price

vehicle segment

Increase the depth of localization.

3. Expenditure on R&D

Capital
Revenue
Total
Total R&D expenditure as a percentage of Net Sales

[`in Millions]

(b) Technology absorption, adaptation and innovation

1. Efforts made:

In its efforts to stay updated with latest technology, the Company is engaged in continuous exchange of information with member companies of the Bosch Group worldwide. This has enabled the Company to keep abreast with the latest developments in product technology, manufacturing process and methods, quality assurance and improvement, marketing, management systems and benefit out of mutual experience.
Competency development at Company’s

The benefits are the same as enumerated in
B(a) 2 above.

3. Technology imported during the last five years:

In addition to the existing technical collaborations for products in the field of fuel injection equipment, spark plugs, auto electrical, power tools, compact alternators, etc., the Company has entered into technical collaborations for the following products during the last five years:

Throttle Position Sensor and Assembly
Lines (ATMO)

Packaging Machines; Electronic Control
Units.

Compact Direct Starter Motor, StartStop Motor – SSM1; SSM- Eco, Common Rail Electronic Control UnitsEDC17; Temperature Sensor TF-W; and
VP37 product sub-class VE-EDC

Packaging Machines of ranges Pack
Feeder for compressible biscuits, SVI
2620 & SVI 4020; Crank Shaft Sensor
‘DG-6’ family and Accelerator Pedal
Module

Flat Plate Collector Basic SKW
(platform)

Packaging Machine FLC 3000 (Product
Class: 0998);
FSM-EM-Component Kit (first generation)

4. Technology absorption:

The Bosch Group is a leading global supplier of technology and services. The Company being a part of Bosch group has access to the future technologies. The Company therefore is able to offer at any point of time state-ofthe- art technology to meet the requirements of its national and international customers.

C. Foreign exchange earnings and outgo

a) Export activities:

Exports

b) Total foreign exchange used

and earned:

Foreign exchange used
(including for capital assets)

Foreign exchange earned

[`in Millions]

Annexure ‘B’ to the Report of the Directors

The provisions under Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules made thereunder for CSR are applicable for the companies

whose financial year had commenced on or after April 01, 2014. Since our financial year commenced on January 01,

2014, the provisions are not applicable to the Company for the period under review.

1. A brief outline of the Company’s CSR Policy, including overview of projects or programs proposed to

be undertaken and a reference to the web-link to the CSR policy and projects or programs.

Brief outline of the CSR Policy and overview of projects and programmes undertaken are given in the

Directors’ Report.

The CSR Policy can be accessed at:

http://www.boschindia.com/media/in/documents/our_company_1/shareholder_information_1/2014/

CSRPolicy.pdf

2. Composition of the CSR Committee:

Mr. Prasad Chandran, Chairman (Independent Director)

Mr. Bhaskar Bhat (Independent Director)

Dr. Steffen Berns (Managing Director)

Mr. Soumitra Bhattacharya (Joint Managing Director)

3. Average Net Profit of the Company for the last three financial years:

Average Net Profit: `13,594 mio

4. Two percent of the amount as in item 3 above:

This provision is applicable from financial year starting on or after April 01, 2014, that is from the financial

year starting April 01, 2015, for the Company.

5. Details of CSR spent for the Financial Year:

a. Total amount spent for the financial year: `103.45 mio.

b. Amount unspent, if any: Refer Note 6

c. Manner in which amount spent in the financial year is detailed below:

Projects/Activities

Sector

Locations

Child Health

Development

Programme (CHDP)

for Government school

children

Infrastructure

development (including

sanitation facility for

girls) in Govt. schools

Model School Concept

for upgrading Education

quality in Govt. Schools

Science Education to

Govt. school children

English and Computer

Education in Govt.

schools

Bengaluru

(Karnataka)

Jaipur

(Rajasthan)

Nashik

(Maharashtra)

Bengaluru

(Karnataka)

Jaipur

(Rajasthan)

Nashik

(Maharashtra)

Bengaluru

(Karnataka)

Bengaluru

(Karnataka)

Bengaluru

(Karnataka)

(` in Million)

Amount

Outlay

(Budget)

Project or

Program

wise

Amount

spent on

the Project

or Program

Cumulative

Expenditure

up to the

reporting

period

Amount

spent Direct

or through

implementing

agency

9.42*

4.10*

5.95*

112 | Shareholder Information | Annual Report 2014-15

Annual Report 2014-15 | Business Responsibility Report | 113

Business Responsibility Report

Shareholding Pattern (as on March 31, 2015)

Price and Volume of Shares Traded

Category

No. of

No. of

Members

Shares held

% to the

Capital

BSE Ltd.

National Stock Exchange of

India Ltd.

Month/

Year

Robert Bosch GmbH

Insurance Companies

Foreign Institutional Investors

Mutual Funds/UTI

Financial Institutions/ Banks

Foreign Nationals/ NRIs/OCBs

Clearing Member

Individuals

Trust

Total

Bodies Corporate

Shareholders holding more than 1% of the share

capital of the Company (as on March 31, 2015)

Name of the Shareholder

No. of shares

% to paid- up

held

capital

Robert Bosch GmbH

General Insurance Corporation

of India

Ltd.

The New India Assurance Co.

Aberdeen Global India Equity

Fund Mauritius Ltd.

Distribution of Shareholding (as on March 31, 2015)

No. of

Shares held

>10000

Total

Members

Shares

Share Price and Index

Price

BSE Sensex

NSE Index

High

Volume

High

Nos.

Volume

Nos.

Jan 2014

Feb 2014

Mar 2014

Apr 2014

May 2014

Jun 2014

Jul 2014

Aug 2014

Sep 2014

Oct 2014

Nov 2014

Dec 2014

Jan 2015

Feb 2015

Mar 2015

Website

The Company’s website www.boschindia.com contains

information about the Company, Products, Services and

Solutions, Press Releases and Shareholder Information.

The ‘Shareholder Information’ section serves to inform

the Shareholders by providing key information like Board

of Directors, Committees of the Board, Financial Results,

Shareholding Pattern, details of unpaid / unclaimed

dividend etc.

Registrar and Transfer Agent

(For shares held in physical & dematerialized form)

Integrated Enterprises (India) Limited.

No.30, Ramana Residency,

4th Cross, Sampige Road,

Malleswaram,

Bengaluru – 560 003

E-mail: irg@integratedindia.in

Investor Service Centre

Secretarial Department (BCS)

Bosch Limited

Hosur Road, Adugodi

Bengaluru – 560 030

Tel: (080) 2299 2393 (Extn. 2315/2310);

Monday to Friday: 9.30 a.m. to 5.00 p.m. (except holidays)

Designated e-mail ID for redressal of investor

complaints

investor@in.bosch.com

Compliance Officer

Mr. S. Karthik, Company Secretary

Tel: (080) 23460815 to 818; Fax: (080) 23460819

Section A: General Information about the Company

Section C: Other Details

Corporate Identity Number (CIN):
L85110KA1951PLC000761

Name of the Company: Bosch Limited

Registered office address:
P.B.No.3000, Hosur Road, Adugodi, Bengaluru - 560 030

4. Website: www.boschindia.com

E-mail ID: rbin.corporate@in.bosch.com

Financial Year reported:
January 01, 2014 to March 31, 2015

Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in
(industrial activity code-wise):
Automotive Component and Accessories

List three key products/services that the
Company manufactures/provides (as in balance sheet)

Fuel Injection Equipment & Components
(ITC code: 84.08 & 84.09)

Auto Electrical Items (ITC code: 85.11)

iii) Portable Electric Power Tools

(ITC code: 85.08)

Total number of locations where business activity is undertaken by the Company

International Location: -Nil1. Does the Company have any Subsidiary Company/
Companies?

Yes, the Company has a subsidiary viz., MICO Trading
Private Limited having its registered office at P.B. No.
3000, Hosur Road, Adugodi, Bengaluru - 560 030.

2. Does the Subsidiary Company / Companies participate in the BR Initiatives of the Parent
Company? If yes, then indicate the number of such subsidiary company(s).

The said subsidiary has not commenced business.
Hence, there is no participation by the said subsidiary in business responsibility initiatives.

3. Do any other entity/entities (e.g. suppliers, distributors etc.) that the Company does business with, participate in the BR initiatives of the Company?
If yes, then indicate the percentage of such entity/ entities? [Less than 30%, 30-60%, More than 60%]

The Company encourages its suppliers, dealers and other stakeholders to support various initiatives taken by the Company towards its business responsibility.

Section D: BR Information

ii) National Locations: 10 Plant and 23 Sales

1. Details of the Director/Directors responsible for

Offices at different location across India.

implementation of the BR policy/policies:

10. Markets served by the Company: – Local/

State/National/International.

Director Identification
Number (DIN):

Section B: Financial Details of the Company

Name: Mr. Soumitra Bhattacharya

[` in Million]

Designation: Joint Managing Director

Particulars

Paid up Capital

Total Turnover

Total profit after taxes

Total spending on
Corporate Social
Responsibility (CSR) as percentage of profit after tax (%)

List of activities in which expenditure in 4 above has been incurred:Details

Details of the BR head:

Particulars

Details

DIN Number
(if applicable)

2. Name

Mr. Soumitra Bhattacharya

3. Designation

Joint Managing Director

Telephone number

e-mail id

Soumitra.bhattacharya@ in.bosch.com

Please refer Annual
Report on CSR
Activites

114 | Business Responsibility Report | Annual Report 2014-15

Annual Report 2014-15 | Business Responsibility Report | 115

2. Principle-wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy/policies (Reply in Y/N):
The National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business (NVGs) released by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs has adopted nine areas of Business Responsibility.

These are briefly are as under:

P1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability

P2 Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle

P3 Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all employees

P4 Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially

those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized

P5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights

P6 Businesses should respect, protect and make efforts to restore the environment

P7 Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner

P8 Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development

P9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a responsible manner

Questions

1. Do you have a policy / policies for …

2. Has the policy being formulated in consultation with the relevant stakeholders?

3. Does the policy conform to any

national /international standards? If yes, specify?

4. Has the policy being approved by the

Board? If yes, has it been signed by
MD/owner/CEO/appropriate Board
Director?

5. Does the company have a specified

committee of the Board/ Director/
Official to oversee the implementation of the policy?

Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online?

7. Has the policy been formally

communicated to all relevant internal and external stakeholders?

(Internally)

8. Does the company have in-house structure to implement the policy/ policies?

9. Does the Company have a grievance redressal mechanism related to the policy/policies to address stakeholders’ grievances related to the policy/policies?

10. Has the company carried out

independent audit/evaluation of the working of this policy by an internal or external agency?

(Internally)

(Internal
Agency)

(ISO14001
OHSAS18001)

(Both
Internal &
External
Agency)

2a. If answer to Sr. No 1 against any of the Principle is ‘No’, please explain why: (Tick up to 2 options)

Sr No

Questions

The company has not understood the

Principle

The company is not at a stage where

it finds itself in a position to formulate

and implement the policies on

specified principles

The company does not have financial

or manpower resources available for

the task

months

next 1 year

It is planned to be done within next 6

It is planned to be done within the

-----P7

Any other reason (please specify)

----------------------------------------The Company through the various industry forums endeavors

to promote growth and technological progress, economic

reforms, inclusive development policies and sustainable

business principles. Therefore, need for a formal policy has

not been felt.

*These Principles are encompassed in the Company’s Code of Business Ethics and Principles of Social Responsibilities.

** The CSR Policy of the Company can be accessed at http://www.boschindia.com/media/in/documents/our_company_1/shareholder_information_1/2014/CSRPolicy.pdf

3. Governance related to BR:

• Indicate the frequency with which the Board of Directors, Committee of the Board or CEO assess the BR

performance of the Company. Within 3 months, 3-6 months, Annually, More than 1 year.

There is no defined frequency. Assessment is an ongoing exercise and is an inherent part of corporate

• Does the Company publish a BR or a Sustainability Report? What is the hyperlink for viewing this report? How

functions.

frequently it is published?

Section E: Principle-wise performance

Principle 1: Business should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability.

1. Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption cover only the company? Yes/ No.

Does it extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/ Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs /Others?

The Company as a constituent of the Bosch Group has always been a value driven organisation.

Throughout its history, Bosch Group, including the Company has been guided by the values and ethics

of its founder Robert Bosch. These include the principle of legality, which obliges all employees to

observe compliance with the laws of the countries in which the Company does business. Other values

have evolved over time. These values have been codified to ensure uniform and common understanding

and systematic implementation across all Bosch locations and units worldwide.

Your Company values –

Future and Result focus

Responsibility and Sustainability

Initiative and Determination

Openness and Trust

Fairness

Diversity

Reliability, Credibility and Legality

The Company’s policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption, extends to group companies in India, its

employees and representatives which includes dealers, distributors, agents, sub-contractors and power

of attorney holders.

114 | Business Responsibility Report | Annual Report 2014-15

Annual Report 2014-15 | Business Responsibility Report | 115

2. Principle-wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy/policies (Reply in Y/N):

2a. If answer to Sr. No 1 against any of the Principle is ‘No’, please explain why: (Tick up to 2 options)

The National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business (NVGs)

released by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs has adopted nine areas of Business Responsibility.

These are briefly are as under:

P1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability

P2 Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle

P3 Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all employees

P4 Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially

those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized

P5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights

P6 Businesses should respect, protect and make efforts to restore the environment

P7 Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner

P8 Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development

P9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a responsible manner

Questions

1. Do you have a policy / policies for …

2. Has the policy being formulated

in consultation with the relevant

stakeholders?

3. Does the policy conform to any

national /international standards? If

yes, specify?

4. Has the policy being approved by the

Board? If yes, has it been signed by

MD/owner/CEO/appropriate Board

Director?

5. Does the company have a specified

committee of the Board/ Director/

Official to oversee the implementation

Indicate the link for the policy to be

of the policy?

viewed online?

7. Has the policy been formally

communicated to all relevant internal

and external stakeholders?

8. Does the company have in-house

structure to implement the policy/

policies?

9. Does the Company have a grievance

redressal mechanism related to

the policy/policies to address

stakeholders’ grievances related to the

policy/policies?

10. Has the company carried out

independent audit/evaluation of the

working of this policy by an internal or

external agency?

(Internally)

(Internally)

(ISO14001

OHSAS18001)

Sr No

Questions

The company has not understood the
Principle
The company is not at a stage where it finds itself in a position to formulate and implement the policies on specified principles
The company does not have financial or manpower resources available for the task
It is planned to be done within next 6 months
It is planned to be done within the next 1 year

Any other reason (please specify)

The Company through the various industry forums endeavors to promote growth and technological progress, economic reforms, inclusive development policies and sustainable business principles. Therefore, need for a formal policy has not been felt.

*These Principles are encompassed in the Company’s Code of Business Ethics and Principles of Social Responsibilities.
** The CSR Policy of the Company can be accessed at http://www.boschindia.com/media/in/documents/our_company_1/shareholder_information_1/2014/CSRPolicy.pdf

3. Governance related to BR:
• Indicate the frequency with which the Board of Directors, Committee of the Board or CEO assess the BR

performance of the Company. Within 3 months, 3-6 months, Annually, More than 1 year.

There is no defined frequency. Assessment is an ongoing exercise and is an inherent part of corporate functions.

• Does the Company publish a BR or a Sustainability Report? What is the hyperlink for viewing this report? How

frequently it is published?

Section E: Principle-wise performance

Principle 1: Business should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability.

1. Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption cover only the company? Yes/ No.

Does it extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/ Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs /Others?
The Company as a constituent of the Bosch Group has always been a value driven organisation.
Throughout its history, Bosch Group, including the Company has been guided by the values and ethics of its founder Robert Bosch. These include the principle of legality, which obliges all employees to observe compliance with the laws of the countries in which the Company does business. Other values have evolved over time. These values have been codified to ensure uniform and common understanding and systematic implementation across all Bosch locations and units worldwide.

Your Company values –

Future and Result focus

Responsibility and Sustainability

Initiative and Determination

Openness and Trust

Fairness

Reliability, Credibility and Legality

Diversity

(Internal

Agency)

(Both

Internal &

External

Agency)

The Company’s policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption, extends to group companies in India, its employees and representatives which includes dealers, distributors, agents, sub-contractors and power of attorney holders.

116 | Business Responsibility Report | Annual Report 2014-15

Annual Report 2014-15 | Business Responsibility Report | 117

2. How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past financial year and what percentage was satisfactorily resolved by the management? If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.

The Company has received 29 stakeholder complaints during the period from January 01, 2014 to
March 31, 2015. Of them, 23 were satisfactorily resolved during the period and 6 are under review.

Apart from this, upto 75.92% of the non hazardous waste was sent for recycling. At all the

Company’s locations, wastes are segregated based on their characteristics, collected and stored

in an appropriate manner. The waste collected are sent to central / state pollution board approved

recyclers for suitable reuse / recycle / disposal.

Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to sustainability

throughout their life cycle.

List up to 3 of your products or services whose design has incorporated social or environmental concerns, risks and / or opportunities.

• Common Rail Pump Kompact (CP1K)

• Common Rail Pump High pressure (CP1H)

• Fuel Control Unit (FCU1)

For each such product, provide the following details in respect of resource use (energy, water, raw material etc.) per unit of product (optional):

The above products have enabled reduction in fuel consumption by approximately 5 percent. Further, design optimization of these products have resulted in energy savings as well as reduction in raw material consumption.

Does the company have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing (including transportation)? If yes, what percentage of your inputs was sourced sustainably? Also, provide details thereof, in about
50 words or so.

Sustainable sourcing can be classified under two broad headings:

1) Products and processes:

Any vendor or source identified for the Company is kept informed about its key principles & efforts made towards sustainable operations. Key vendors carrying high pollution potential are audited in line with Environment Health Safety (EHS) norms. The local Help Safety and
Environment (HSE) team, helps in assessment of high risk operations/processes. Frequent training programmes addressing the requirements are briefed & periodically updated during open house /workshop.

2) Transportation & Logistics:

Vehicles are pooled for collecting raw materials reducing the diesel consumption & load on environment. Also returnable packaging concept has been initiated with major OEM’s thereby reducing the waste generation. All transporters & security team are trained yearly & briefed on EHS requirements related to transportation & environment.

Has the company taken any steps to procure goods and services from local & small producers, including communities surrounding their place of work? If yes, what steps have been taken to improve their capacity and capability of local and small vendors?

Localized vendors are generally preferred, if they meet the quality specifications & EHS compliance.
This also improves reliability factor & reduces cost of operation.

Vendors are provided classroom training for developing their competency. The Company also engages with vendor’s employees and systems to help them develop a Lean approach. Local HSE team is engaged in assessment & training the suppliers on EHS compliance.

Does the company have a mechanism to recycle products and waste? If yes what is the percentage of recycling of products and waste (separately as <5%, 5-10%, >10%). Also, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.

Yes, the Company has a mechanism to recycle products and waste.

In 2014, nearly 41.14% of the hazardous waste generated was sent for recycling. Some of the hazardous waste which are recycled are:

1. Used Oil

2. Skimmed Oil

3. Used Solvents (SBP spirit + Isophar H + MTO)

Principle 3: Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all Employees

Please indicate the total number of employees:

Sr No

Category of Employees

No. of Employees

Managerial and Superintending Staff (M&SS)

Associates

TOTAL

Please indicate the total number of employees hired on temporary/contractual/casual basis:

Total number of employees hired on temporary/contractual/casual basis are: 2,524

Please indicate the number of permanent women employees.

Number of permanent women employees: 513

Please indicate the number of permanent employees with disabilities:

Number of permanent employees with disabilities: 53

Do you have an employee association that is recognized by management?

Yes, there are recognized trade unions affiliated to various central trade union bodies.

What percentage of your permanent employees are members of this recognized employee association?

Almost 100% of permanent employees are members of recognized employee associations.

Please indicate the number of complaints relating to child labour, forced labour, involuntary labour,

sexual harassment in the last financial year and pending, as on the end of the financial year.

Category

No. of complaints filed

during the financial year

No. of complaints

pending as on end of

the financial year

Child labour/forced labour/involuntary

labour

Sexual Harassment

Discriminatory employment

8. What percentage of your under mentioned employees were given safety & skill up-gradation training in

the last year?

Permanent Employees

Permanent Women Employees

Casual/Temporary/Contractual Employees

Employees with Disabilities

Principle 4: Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all Stakeholders,

especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized.

Has the company mapped its internal and external stakeholders? Yes/No

Yes, the Company has mapped its internal and external stakeholders.

Out of the above, has the company identified the disadvantaged, vulnerable & marginalized

stakeholders

Yes, the Company has identified the disadvantaged, vulnerable & marginalized stakeholders.

116 | Business Responsibility Report | Annual Report 2014-15

Annual Report 2014-15 | Business Responsibility Report | 117

2. How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past financial year and what percentage

was satisfactorily resolved by the management? If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.

The Company has received 29 stakeholder complaints during the period from January 01, 2014 to

March 31, 2015. Of them, 23 were satisfactorily resolved during the period and 6 are under review.

Apart from this, upto 75.92% of the non hazardous waste was sent for recycling. At all the
Company’s locations, wastes are segregated based on their characteristics, collected and stored in an appropriate manner. The waste collected are sent to central / state pollution board approved recyclers for suitable reuse / recycle / disposal.

Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to sustainability

List up to 3 of your products or services whose design has incorporated social or environmental

throughout their life cycle.

concerns, risks and / or opportunities.

• Common Rail Pump Kompact (CP1K)

• Common Rail Pump High pressure (CP1H)

• Fuel Control Unit (FCU1)

For each such product, provide the following details in respect of resource use (energy, water, raw

material etc.) per unit of product (optional):

The above products have enabled reduction in fuel consumption by approximately 5 percent. Further,

design optimization of these products have resulted in energy savings as well as reduction in raw

Does the company have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing (including transportation)? If

yes, what percentage of your inputs was sourced sustainably? Also, provide details thereof, in about

material consumption.

50 words or so.

Sustainable sourcing can be classified under two broad headings:

1) Products and processes:

Any vendor or source identified for the Company is kept informed about its key principles &

efforts made towards sustainable operations. Key vendors carrying high pollution potential

are audited in line with Environment Health Safety (EHS) norms. The local Help Safety and

Environment (HSE) team, helps in assessment of high risk operations/processes. Frequent

training programmes addressing the requirements are briefed & periodically updated during

open house /workshop.

2) Transportation & Logistics:

Vehicles are pooled for collecting raw materials reducing the diesel consumption & load

on environment. Also returnable packaging concept has been initiated with major OEM’s

thereby reducing the waste generation. All transporters & security team are trained yearly &

briefed on EHS requirements related to transportation & environment.

Has the company taken any steps to procure goods and services from local & small producers,

including communities surrounding their place of work? If yes, what steps have been taken to

improve their capacity and capability of local and small vendors?

Localized vendors are generally preferred, if they meet the quality specifications & EHS compliance.

This also improves reliability factor & reduces cost of operation.

Vendors are provided classroom training for developing their competency. The Company also engages

with vendor’s employees and systems to help them develop a Lean approach. Local HSE team is

engaged in assessment & training the suppliers on EHS compliance.

Does the company have a mechanism to recycle products and waste? If yes what is the percentage of

recycling of products and waste (separately as <5%, 5-10%, >10%). Also, provide details thereof, in

about 50 words or so.

Yes, the Company has a mechanism to recycle products and waste.

In 2014, nearly 41.14% of the hazardous waste generated was sent for recycling. Some of the

hazardous waste which are recycled are:

1. Used Oil

2. Skimmed Oil

3. Used Solvents (SBP spirit + Isophar H + MTO)

Principle 3: Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all Employees

Please indicate the total number of employees:

Sr No

Category of Employees

No. of Employees

Associates

Managerial and Superintending Staff (M&SS)

TOTAL

Please indicate the total number of employees hired on temporary/contractual/casual basis:

Total number of employees hired on temporary/contractual/casual basis are: 2,524

Please indicate the number of permanent women employees.

Number of permanent women employees: 513

Please indicate the number of permanent employees with disabilities:

Number of permanent employees with disabilities: 53

Do you have an employee association that is recognized by management?

Yes, there are recognized trade unions affiliated to various central trade union bodies.

What percentage of your permanent employees are members of this recognized employee association?

Almost 100% of permanent employees are members of recognized employee associations.

Please indicate the number of complaints relating to child labour, forced labour, involuntary labour, sexual harassment in the last financial year and pending, as on the end of the financial year.

Category

No. of complaints filed during the financial year

No. of complaints pending as on end of the financial year

Child labour/forced labour/involuntary labour

Sexual Harassment

Discriminatory employment

8. What percentage of your under mentioned employees were given safety & skill up-gradation training in

the last year?

Permanent Employees

Permanent Women Employees

Casual/Temporary/Contractual Employees

Employees with Disabilities

Principle 4: Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all Stakeholders,

especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized.

Has the company mapped its internal and external stakeholders? Yes/No

Yes, the Company has mapped its internal and external stakeholders.

Out of the above, has the company identified the disadvantaged, vulnerable & marginalized stakeholders

Yes, the Company has identified the disadvantaged, vulnerable & marginalized stakeholders.

118 | Business Responsibility Report | Annual Report 2014-15

Annual Report 2014-15 | Business Responsibility Report | 119

Are there any special initiatives taken by the Company to engage with the disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders. If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.

The Company has always engaged itself in special initiatives with the disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders. The Company has engaged around 75 physically disabled persons through the NGO ‘Ability in Disability’ who are working in various departments including power tools, packaging and aftermarket spare parts packing.

Number of show cause / legal notices received from CPCB/SPCB which are pending (i.e. not resolved

Principle 7: Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a

Principle 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights

Is your company a member of any trade and chamber or association? If Yes, name only those major

Does the policy of the company on human rights cover only the company or extend to the Group/Joint
Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/Others?

The Company’s Policy on Human Rights covers not only the Company but extends to its Group
Companies, Joint Ventures, Suppliers, Contractors, NGOs, etc.

How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past financial year and what percent was satisfactorily resolved by the management?

Principle 6: Businesses should respect, promote and make efforts to restore the environment

Does the policy related to Principle 6 cover only the company or extends to the Group/Joint Ventures
Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/others.

The Company’s Corporate Environment Policy extends to cover the Company and its subsidiary.

Does the company have strategies/ initiatives to address global environmental issues such as climate change, global warming, etc? Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink for webpage etc.

Yes. The Company aims to reduce relative CO2 emissions by 20% by 2020. An insight to the environmental initiatives can be accessed at the hyperlink viz:
http://www.boschindia.com/content/language1/html/4430.htm

Does the company identify and assess potential environmental risks? Y/N

Yes, the Company has a mechanism to identify and assess potential environmental risks in its plants and projects.

Does the company have any project related to Clean Development Mechanism? If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. Also, if yes, whether any environmental compliance report is filed?

All locations are certified for requirements under ISO 14001 (Environmental Management System) and
OHSAS 18001(Occupational Health and Safety System). The system requirements are broad based by incorporating internal standards. Layered audits are carried out to check the level of compliance.
Deviation management system ensures that the corrective actions are close looped and issues are addressed within a reasonable time frame.

The EHS performance assessment is carried out annually at locations to establish the maturity levels.
It is carried out by cross functional team assessing the performance over the past year. Based on the outcome, areas for improvement are identified and objectives are derived for the next year.

Has the company undertaken any other initiatives on – clean technology, energy efficiency, renewable energy, etc. Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink for web page etc.

The Company has taken up several initiatives on clean technology, energy efficiency and renewable energy.

Innovative technologies are used to reduce the impact on the environment. In the entire chain of manufacturing, the emphasis is on preserving natural resources. Processes are designed to minimize use of raw materials, water and energy.

Details of these are available at http://www.boschindia.com/content/language1/html/4430.htm

Are the Emissions/Waste generated by the company within the permissible limits given by CPCB/SPCB for the financial year being reported?

Yes, the emissions / waste generated by the Company are within the permissible limits given by CPCB/ SPCB.

to satisfaction) as on end of Financial Year.

responsible manner

ones that your business deals with:

The Company is a member of:

i) Confederation of Indian Industry(CII)

ii) Bangalore Chamber of Commerce (BCC)

Principles, Others)

Yes, following are the broad areas:

Promote growth and technological progress

Sustainable business principles

Energy Sustainability

d) Water & Food Security

iii) Automotive Component Manufacturers’ Association of India (ACMA)

iv) Bombay Chamber of Commerce and Industry (BCCI)

Have you advocated/lobbied through above associations for the advancement or improvement of public

good? Yes/No; if yes specify the broad areas (drop box: Governance and Administration, Economic

Reforms, Inclusive Development Policies, Energy security, Water, Food Security, Sustainable Business

Principle 8: Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development

Does the company have specified programmes /initiatives/projects in pursuit of the policy related to

Principle 8? If yes details thereof.

In line with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and based on recommendation of the CSR

Committee, the Board of Directors have adopted a CSR Policy. The CSR policy, inter-alia, deals with

the objectives of the Company’s CSR initiatives, the guiding principles, the thrust areas of CSR, the

responsibilities of the CSR Committee, the implementation plan and reporting framework.

The thrust areas of the Company’s CSR activities are:

Child health, hygiene and education;

Vocational training focused on employable skills; and

Neighbourhood projects as per the local needs identified by Company’s Plants

Some of the initiatives taken during the year under review are:

Child health, hygiene and education:

Child Health Development Programme: Medical camps for several Government School children were

undertaken covering 26,000 students studying in 125 government schools in and around Bengaluru.

Child Science Education Programme: In partnership with Agastya International Foundation, 30

LIB(Labs in a Box), 2 Mobile Science Vans and one mobile bike were deployed benefiting more than

20,000 children were provided.

Child English & Computer Education Programme: The computer labs were set up in 20 Government

schools with CPUs, monitors, UPS and other infrastructure.

Infrastructure development in schools: The infrastructure upgradation in the form of better sanitation

and providing potable water was undertaken in 38 schools in and around Bengaluru and Jaipur.

118 | Business Responsibility Report | Annual Report 2014-15

Annual Report 2014-15 | Business Responsibility Report | 119

Are there any special initiatives taken by the Company to engage with the disadvantaged, vulnerable

and marginalized stakeholders. If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.

Number of show cause / legal notices received from CPCB/SPCB which are pending (i.e. not resolved to satisfaction) as on end of Financial Year.

The Company has always engaged itself in special initiatives with the disadvantaged, vulnerable

and marginalized stakeholders. The Company has engaged around 75 physically disabled persons

through the NGO ‘Ability in Disability’ who are working in various departments including power tools,

packaging and aftermarket spare parts packing.

Principle 7: Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a

responsible manner

Principle 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights

Does the policy of the company on human rights cover only the company or extend to the Group/Joint

Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/Others?

The Company’s Policy on Human Rights covers not only the Company but extends to its Group

Companies, Joint Ventures, Suppliers, Contractors, NGOs, etc.

How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past financial year and what percent was

satisfactorily resolved by the management?

Principle 6: Businesses should respect, promote and make efforts to restore the environment

Does the policy related to Principle 6 cover only the company or extends to the Group/Joint Ventures

Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/others.

The Company’s Corporate Environment Policy extends to cover the Company and its subsidiary.

Does the company have strategies/ initiatives to address global environmental issues such as climate

change, global warming, etc? Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink for webpage etc.

Yes. The Company aims to reduce relative CO2 emissions by 20% by 2020. An insight to the

environmental initiatives can be accessed at the hyperlink viz:

http://www.boschindia.com/content/language1/html/4430.htm

Does the company identify and assess potential environmental risks? Y/N

Yes, the Company has a mechanism to identify and assess potential environmental risks in its plants

and projects.

Does the company have any project related to Clean Development Mechanism? If so, provide details

thereof, in about 50 words or so. Also, if yes, whether any environmental compliance report is filed?

All locations are certified for requirements under ISO 14001 (Environmental Management System) and

OHSAS 18001(Occupational Health and Safety System). The system requirements are broad based

by incorporating internal standards. Layered audits are carried out to check the level of compliance.

Deviation management system ensures that the corrective actions are close looped and issues are

addressed within a reasonable time frame.

The EHS performance assessment is carried out annually at locations to establish the maturity levels.

It is carried out by cross functional team assessing the performance over the past year. Based on the

outcome, areas for improvement are identified and objectives are derived for the next year.

Has the company undertaken any other initiatives on – clean technology, energy efficiency, renewable

energy, etc. Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink for web page etc.

The Company has taken up several initiatives on clean technology, energy efficiency and renewable energy.

Innovative technologies are used to reduce the impact on the environment. In the entire chain of

manufacturing, the emphasis is on preserving natural resources. Processes are designed to minimize

use of raw materials, water and energy.

Details of these are available at http://www.boschindia.com/content/language1/html/4430.htm

Are the Emissions/Waste generated by the company within the permissible limits given by CPCB/SPCB

for the financial year being reported?

Yes, the emissions / waste generated by the Company are within the permissible limits given by CPCB/ SPCB.

Is your company a member of any trade and chamber or association? If Yes, name only those major ones that your business deals with:

The Company is a member of:

i) Confederation of Indian Industry(CII)

ii) Bangalore Chamber of Commerce (BCC)

iii) Automotive Component Manufacturers’ Association of India (ACMA)

iv) Bombay Chamber of Commerce and Industry (BCCI)

Have you advocated/lobbied through above associations for the advancement or improvement of public good? Yes/No; if yes specify the broad areas (drop box: Governance and Administration, Economic
Reforms, Inclusive Development Policies, Energy security, Water, Food Security, Sustainable Business
Principles, Others)

Yes, following are the broad areas:

Promote growth and technological progress

Sustainable business principles

Energy Sustainability

d) Water & Food Security

Principle 8: Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development

Does the company have specified programmes /initiatives/projects in pursuit of the policy related to
Principle 8? If yes details thereof.

In line with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and based on recommendation of the CSR
Committee, the Board of Directors have adopted a CSR Policy. The CSR policy, inter-alia, deals with the objectives of the Company’s CSR initiatives, the guiding principles, the thrust areas of CSR, the responsibilities of the CSR Committee, the implementation plan and reporting framework.

The thrust areas of the Company’s CSR activities are:

Child health, hygiene and education;

Vocational training focused on employable skills; and

Neighbourhood projects as per the local needs identified by Company’s Plants

Some of the initiatives taken during the year under review are:

Child health, hygiene and education:

Child Health Development Programme: Medical camps for several Government School children were undertaken covering 26,000 students studying in 125 government schools in and around Bengaluru.

Child Science Education Programme: In partnership with Agastya International Foundation, 30
LIB(Labs in a Box), 2 Mobile Science Vans and one mobile bike were deployed benefiting more than
20,000 children were provided.

Child English & Computer Education Programme: The computer labs were set up in 20 Government schools with CPUs, monitors, UPS and other infrastructure.

Infrastructure development in schools: The infrastructure upgradation in the form of better sanitation and providing potable water was undertaken in 38 schools in and around Bengaluru and Jaipur.

120 | Business Responsibility Report | Annual Report 2014-15

Annual Report 2014-15 | Business Responsibility Report | 121

Vocational training focused on employable skills:

Have you taken steps to ensure that this community development initiative is successfully adopted by

the community?

The Company ensures its presence is established right from the commencement of the initiatives. It

collaborates with the communities right from need identification to project implementation phase. The

Company has extensive engagement with various stakeholders. The feedback from the stakeholders

are analysed and various actions like improvement actions are prioritized.

Principle 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a

responsible manner

1. What percentage of customer complaints/consumer cases are pending as on the end of financial year.

No new consumer case was filed against the Company during the period January 01, 2014 to March

31, 2015. 5 cases were pending as on March 31, 2015 for decision.

Does the company display product information on the product label, over and above what is mandated

as per local laws? Yes / No / N.A. / Remarks (additional information)

Yes, apart from the mandated declarations, additional declarations are furnished on the products/

labels relating to the products and their usage.

Is there any case filed by any stakeholder against the company regarding unfair trade practices

irresponsible advertising and/or anti-competitive behaviour during the last five years and pending as

on end of financial year. If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.

Did your company carry out any consumer survey / consumer satisfaction trends?

BRIDGE - Bosch’s Response to India’s Development & Growth through Employability Enhancement
Through a unique vocational training programme aimed at underprivileged unemployed youth, select school dropouts are targeted. By imparting industry relevant, short term skills development and training programmes, the focus is to help these youth to get suitable employment and bring them back to the main stream.

End-to-end solution vocational training model includes, training contents development (both soft skills and functional skills), application oriented delivery methodology, continuous evaluation, internship, employment and financial assistance over the course of 2 months. The programme was organized in more than 50 centers in the country including 25 Government ITIs in Karnataka. More than 500 youth have been trained and employed and thousands more will be benefited in years to come.

Neighbourhood Projects:

Bengaluru: Bosch Technical Labs
Technical labs have been set up in 25 Government ITIs under PPP mode in partnership with the
Government of Karnataka. This is mainly to upgrade the technical training infrastructure as per current industry requirements and improve the training quality of existing ITIs.

Nashik- Village development projects:
The Nashik plant has adopted a number of villages and undertook various projects. In the area of
Health & Hygiene, activities included a general health camp initiatives, malnutrition and dental health camp, and a health checkup in a tribal school. Community development initiatives included: livestock development, ‘Annual Agri Plan’ for paddy-yield improvement and better agricultural practices – in coordination with ICRISAT, Anganwadi renovation, school renovation and self-help group formation.
Vocational training and income-generating programs were also initiated.

Construction of check dams of cement bags was carried out in 28 villages for increasing the ground water table level.

Jaipur:RO Plant: Providing clean drinking water to the villagers
Three additional reverse osmosis (RO) plants were set up in villages near Jaipur during the year catering to 421 families. The seven RO plants set up till date support 1270 families. Renovation of the
Goner Girls School was another important initiative during the year.

Naganathapura: Support to the underprivileged
The Naganathapura plant sustained its efforts to improve the lives of neighbouring communities by taking up various initiatives.

Bosch India Foundation (BIF)

The Company, in addition to carrying out CSR activities through various partners & NGOs, also carries out CSR activities through Bosch India Foundation, a trust formed by Bosch group companies in India including Bosch Limited. The Company contributes approximately 0.25 percent of its Net Profit to the Foundation for carrying out CSR activities. BIF continued its journey in community and societal development, with a clear focus on sustainability through the following key programs and intervention areas:

Serving the underprivileged and weaker sections of society through vocational skills training and healthcare projects

Holistic integrated village development

Are the programmes / projects undertaken through in-house team/own foundation/external NGO government structures /any other organization?

The Company’s Social Responsibility Projects are implemented through internal team as well as in partnership with Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and Government Institutions.

Have you done any impact assessment of your initiative?

Yes, the Company has conducted impact assessments of its CSR Initiatives.

4. What is your company’s direct contribution to community development projects and the details of the

projects undertaken?

The Company spent an amount of Mio INR 103.45 on community development projects. Details of the projects undertaken are given in Annual Report on CSR Activities enclosed as Annexure ‘B’ to the
Directors’ Report.

120 | Business Responsibility Report | Annual Report 2014-15

Annual Report 2014-15 | Business Responsibility Report | 121

Have you taken steps to ensure that this community development initiative is successfully adopted by the community?

The Company ensures its presence is established right from the commencement of the initiatives. It collaborates with the communities right from need identification to project implementation phase. The
Company has extensive engagement with various stakeholders. The feedback from the stakeholders are analysed and various actions like improvement actions are prioritized.

Principle 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a

responsible manner

1. What percentage of customer complaints/consumer cases are pending as on the end of financial year.

No new consumer case was filed against the Company during the period January 01, 2014 to March
31, 2015. 5 cases were pending as on March 31, 2015 for decision.

Does the company display product information on the product label, over and above what is mandated as per local laws? Yes / No / N.A. / Remarks (additional information)

Yes, apart from the mandated declarations, additional declarations are furnished on the products/ labels relating to the products and their usage.

Is there any case filed by any stakeholder against the company regarding unfair trade practices irresponsible advertising and/or anti-competitive behaviour during the last five years and pending as on end of financial year. If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.

Did your company carry out any consumer survey / consumer satisfaction trends?

Vocational training focused on employable skills:

BRIDGE - Bosch’s Response to India’s Development & Growth through Employability Enhancement

Through a unique vocational training programme aimed at underprivileged unemployed youth, select

school dropouts are targeted. By imparting industry relevant, short term skills development and

training programmes, the focus is to help these youth to get suitable employment and bring them back

to the main stream.

End-to-end solution vocational training model includes, training contents development (both soft skills

and functional skills), application oriented delivery methodology, continuous evaluation, internship,

employment and financial assistance over the course of 2 months. The programme was organized in

more than 50 centers in the country including 25 Government ITIs in Karnataka. More than 500 youth

have been trained and employed and thousands more will be benefited in years to come.

Neighbourhood Projects:

Bengaluru: Bosch Technical Labs

Technical labs have been set up in 25 Government ITIs under PPP mode in partnership with the

Government of Karnataka. This is mainly to upgrade the technical training infrastructure as per current

industry requirements and improve the training quality of existing ITIs.

Nashik- Village development projects:

The Nashik plant has adopted a number of villages and undertook various projects. In the area of

Health & Hygiene, activities included a general health camp initiatives, malnutrition and dental health

camp, and a health checkup in a tribal school. Community development initiatives included: livestock

development, ‘Annual Agri Plan’ for paddy-yield improvement and better agricultural practices – in

coordination with ICRISAT, Anganwadi renovation, school renovation and self-help group formation.

Vocational training and income-generating programs were also initiated.

Construction of check dams of cement bags was carried out in 28 villages for increasing the ground

water table level.

Jaipur:RO Plant: Providing clean drinking water to the villagers

Three additional reverse osmosis (RO) plants were set up in villages near Jaipur during the year

catering to 421 families. The seven RO plants set up till date support 1270 families. Renovation of the

Goner Girls School was another important initiative during the year.

Naganathapura: Support to the underprivileged

The Naganathapura plant sustained its efforts to improve the lives of neighbouring communities by

taking up various initiatives.

Bosch India Foundation (BIF)

The Company, in addition to carrying out CSR activities through various partners & NGOs, also carries

out CSR activities through Bosch India Foundation, a trust formed by Bosch group companies in India

including Bosch Limited. The Company contributes approximately 0.25 percent of its Net Profit to

the Foundation for carrying out CSR activities. BIF continued its journey in community and societal

development, with a clear focus on sustainability through the following key programs and intervention

Serving the underprivileged and weaker sections of society through vocational skills training

areas:

and healthcare projects

Holistic integrated village development

Are the programmes / projects undertaken through in-house team/own foundation/external NGO

government structures /any other organization?

The Company’s Social Responsibility Projects are implemented through internal team as well as in

partnership with Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and Government Institutions.

Have you done any impact assessment of your initiative?

Yes, the Company has conducted impact assessments of its CSR Initiatives.

4. What is your company’s direct contribution to community development projects and the details of the

projects undertaken?

Directors’ Report.

The Company spent an amount of Mio INR 103.45 on community development projects. Details of

the projects undertaken are given in Annual Report on CSR Activities enclosed as Annexure ‘B’ to the