Sustainability Data Book Overview
Overview of Toyota Motor Corporation

Promoting Sustainability

Environment

Society

Governance

Performance Data

Sustainability Data Book Overview

Overview of Toyota
Motor Corporation

Overview of Toyota Motor Corporation

Updated in December 2020

Company Profile

Global/Regional Data

Company Name

Toyota Motor Corporation

President and
Representative Director

Akio Toyoda

1-4-18 Koraku, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan
4-7-1 Meieki, Nakamura-ku, Nagoya City, Aichi
Prefecture, Japan

August 28, 1937

635.4 billion yen (as of the end of March, 2020)

North America

Other

Asia

Europe

Japan

Other

Japan

Other

Japan

No. of Employees
(as of the end of March, 2020)

Asia

Europe

North America

No. of vehicles produced
(FY2020)

No. of vehicles sold
(FY2020)

Asia

Europe

North America

SASB TR-AU-000.A

SASB TR-AU-000.B

Company Address

Head Office
Tokyo Head Office
Nagoya Office

Founded

Capital

Major Business
Activities

No. of Employees
(consolidated)

No. of Consolidated
Subsidiaries

No. of Affiliates
Accounted for under the
Equity Method

• Automotive business
• Financial services

(Vehicle loans and leasing, etc.)

• Other businesses (telecommunications

services, etc.)

359,542 (as of the end of March, 2020)

528 (as of the end of March, 2020)

72 (as of the end of March, 2020)

Vision & Philosophy

For details of our Vision & Philosophy, please see our official

website.

Vision & Philosophy

Europe

Japan

North America

Other

Asia

Excluding Japan

No. of plants and manufacturing companies (as of the end of March, 2020)

No. of R&D centers (as of the end of March, 2020)

Consolidated Financial Highlights Based on U.S. GAAP—Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
(Financial Years Ended March 31)

Net Revenues

Operating Income

Net Income

R&D Expenses

Capital Investment

(billion yen)

(billion yen)

(billion yen)

(billion yen)

(billion yen)

Sustainability Data Book
Sustainability Data Book Overview
Overview of Toyota Motor Corporation

Promoting Sustainability

Environment

Society

Governance

Performance Data

Promoting Sustainability

Updated in December 2020

Sustainability Policy

Materiality (key sustainability issues)

Toyota is working on initiatives that contribute to the sustainable

Toyota has been committed to resolving various social issues through its business activities. As the issues become increasingly diversified and

development of society and the world through all its business

complicated and in view of the ever-changing social trends and external voices, Toyota has identified six key issues that it needs to focus

activities in cooperation with global society. Toyota aims to become

particular efforts on as materiality issues, with the aim of both contributing to society and sustainably enhancing its own corporate value. In the

a company that is admired and trusted by society by sharing and

process of identifying the six issues, first we referred to and examined various international norms and guidelines and listed up various issues.

implementing its sustainability-related policies with all its employees,

Then we gathered external viewpoints, including the opinions of third parties and the priority items of evaluation organizations. We also examined

including those in consolidated subsidiaries.

Policy

Organization

As the automobile industry is entering a once-in-a-century

transformational period in which the need to solve social issues

is becoming increasingly urgent, companies are required to

enhance their commitment to promoting sustainability. Toyota

set up the Sustainability Management Dept. in 2019 to enable

the entire company to promote integrated sustainability initiatives

by determining priorities. In 2020, Toyota appointed a Chief

Sustainability Offi cer (CSO and director) and a Deputy Chief

Sustainability Offi cer (DCSO) as leaders of the promotion. The

Sustainability Meeting, chaired by the CSO and attended by

members including Outside Directors and Outside Audit &

Supervisory Board Members, discusses and reports on sustainability

issues and directions for solutions. The results of the discussions

are reported to the Board of Directors, a supervisory organ of the

meeting. Sustainability Liaison

Organization

Meetings, hosted by the

Sustainability Management

Dept. as the secretariat,

are held for the relevant

departments (environment,

human resources, secretarial,

purchasing, accounting, public

relations, corporate citizenship,

etc.) on a periodic basis with

the aim of improving the overall

sustainability of the company.

Shareholders’ Meeting

Board of Directors

Sustainability Meeting

Chairperson: CSO
(Held four times a year on an as-needed basis)

Sustainability Liaison Meeting

Secretariat: Sustainability Management Dept.

internal viewpoints and organized them from two perspectives to enhance our corporate value: our “founding spirit,” which represents our

principles, strengths and other factors that we have cultivated and that will not change, and factors that we should change or reinforce in the

process of our “transformation into a mobility company.” At the same time, we discussed and evaluated the issues to determine whether they are

critical issues that will enable Toyota to make further contributions toward building a sustainable society in line with the SDGs.

Process of identification

Listing issues

Evaluation from internal and external viewpoints

Evaluation from social viewpoints

Discussion

●Major references
(cid:127) International guidelines, norms

(GRI, SASB, SDGs, etc.)
(cid:127) Priority items of evaluation

organizations

(cid:127) Trends inside and outside Japan
(cid:127) Risk and opportunity perspective

●External
(cid:127) Priority items for investors or

evaluation organizations
(cid:127) Opinions obtained through

communication with stakeholders

●Internal
(cid:127) Factors we have cultivated so far
(cid:127) Anticipated environmental changes

(cid:127) Value that Toyota can offer society
(cid:127) Contribution to solving social

issues (SDGs)

(cid:127) Discussion at Sustainability Meeting attended by Outside Directors and
Audit & Supervisory Board Members

Enhancing corporate value

Contributing to society (SDGs)

Basis for identification

Founding spirit
Factors that we should continue to maintain

● Principle: Five Main Principles of Toyoda
● Strengths: Capabilities and technologies of monozukuri

(manufacturing), Toyota Production System, cost reduction, quality, many partners, etc.

Transformation into a mobility company

Factors that we should change or reinforce

● Business (financial): Adapt to CASE*
● Non-financial: Commit to ESG

* CASE: Connected, Autonomous/Automated, Shared, and Electric

Six materiality issues

●Respect for people, empower various human resources
●Make safe, reasonably priced, high-quality cars
●Maintain a stable business base

●Build a future mobility society
●Address climate change and promote the use of new energy sources
●Make the value chain resilient and sustainable

Sustainability Data Book

Sustainability Data Book Overview
Overview of Toyota Motor Corporation

Promoting Sustainability

Environment

Society

Governance

Performance Data

Toyota’s SDGs

Since its founding, Toyota has maintained the Toyoda Precepts, or fi ve main principles of founder Sakichi

Toyoda, and contributed to creating an affl uent society through its business activities, with the aim

of becoming a reliable corporate citizen in the international community. In this spirit, we have tackled

various challenges in society. By applying the Toyota Production System and other technologies we

have fostered in our monozukuri (manufacturing), we have developed the world’s fi rst commercial hybrid

vehicle aimed at resolving environmental issues. We have also contributed to society by making “everbetter cars” that make our customers happy, which has led to the establishment of a stable business

base. This virtuous circle has enabled us to achieve sustainable growth for our business activities.

Today, propelled by a series of technical innovations called CASE, the automobile industry is entering a

once-in-a-century transformational period. Taking advantage of this opportunity, Toyota is transforming

itself from an automobile manufacturing company into a mobility company. By making the best of our

strengths cultivated through manufacturing while adapting ourselves to technological innovations centered

on CASE, we will further expand the potential of automobiles and offer services that make freedom of

mobility available to everyone. The development of automated driving and other advanced technologies,

for example, is a solution to Toyota’s ultimate challenge: zero deaths and injuries from traffi c accidents.

Through these initiatives, Toyota hopes to provide society with greatly improved value and contribute to

the achievement of SDGs through its businesses. Toyota will also continue to proactively promote social

contribution activities with a view to becoming a reliable corporate citizen.

Meanwhile, to realize a sustainable society, which the SDGs are aimed at, efforts in tackling ESG issues,

such as human rights and diversity, are necessary. We will enhance our initiatives to address these

social issues and promote diversity among our employees, who are our assets, to help them to survive

the period of transformation, thereby creating changes in society while leveraging such changes for the

further growth of Toyota itself.

Toyota believes that it can also contribute to society through promoting motorsports, the purpose

of which is to enjoy movement itself, and corporate sport activities, which Toyota has consistently

supported since its founding. Seeing those who challenge their limits gives you a heart-pumping feeling

excitement (waku-doki). This is one of the values that we should maintain for creating a more affl uent

society in the future.

Founding spirit and technologies cultivated through manufacturing

●Respect for people, empowering various human resources
●Making safe, reasonably priced, high-quality cars ●Maintaining a stable business base
Toyota as a car company

Safe reliable

Environment

First Japan-made passenger car

Developing safety technologies

Making “ever-better cars”

Developing environmental technologies

Transformation into a mobility company

●Building a future mobility society ●Addressing climate change and promoting the use of new energy sources
●Resilient and sustainable value chain

Electrification

Information (connectivity)

Intelligence (automated driving, AI)

Evolution of cars

Collaboration across industries

Advanced mobile services

Contributing to solving social issues

Through businesses

Improving value by adapting to CASE

Safe reliable

(cid:127) Zero deaths and injuries from traffic accidents
(cid:127) Comfortable and congestion-free travels
(cid:127) No one lacking access to means of transportation

(cid:127) Spread of cars serving also as power sources
(cid:127) Use of hydrogen to promote energy diversification

TOYOTA ENVIRONMENTAL
CHALLENGE 2050

Environment

(cid:127) Zero emissions

(zero CO2 emissions)

(cid:127) Recycling/reuse of resources

By social contribution activities Aiming to become a reliable corporate citizen

Toyota’s SDGs

Enhancing ESG

(cid:127) Tackling human rights issues
(cid:127) Promoting diversity

Waku-doki (heart-pumping excitement)

Fun and pleasure of sports and movement

Sustainability Data Book

Sustainability Data Book Overview
Overview of Toyota Motor Corporation

Promoting Sustainability

Environment

Society

Governance

Performance Data

contacts to hold dialogues with major stakeholders. They communicate Toyota’s policy and also help

deepen mutual understanding. Additionally, Toyota maintains communication with external experts to

Toyota will engage in stakeholder-oriented management to contribute to sustainable development

examine, for example, the direction of its sustainability-related initiatives.

and strive to maintain and develop sound relationships with stakeholders through open and fair

Toyota will continue to further strengthen dialogue with stakeholders to earnestly address society’s

communication. Specifi cally, Toyota’s relevant divisions and offi ces all over the world act as the main

expectations and to utilize them in our future initiatives.

Customers

Based on our “Customer First” policy, we take measures to incorporate the comments and opinions of customers into better products and services.

Employees

Bilateral communications to build teamwork and foster a sense of unity based on a labor-management relationship founded on mutual trust and responsibility

Communication methods and frequency

Incorporation into corporate activities

●Toyota Customer Assistance Center (as needed)
Responding to customer opinions by telephone and email forms

●Official website, product websites (as needed)
Disseminating company information and business details, providing FAQs, etc.

Improving customer satisfaction activities

●Information sharing through social media (as needed)

Disseminating company information and business details

Disseminating information in response to customer demand

Communication methods and frequency

●Joint labor-management roundtable conferences/
Labor-management meetings (several times a year)
Discussions/negotiations, opinion exchanges and mutual understanding regarding labor-management issues

●Employee satisfaction survey (once or twice every

two years)
Surveying employees’ satisfaction regarding workplace culture and company life

Incorporation into corporate activities

Strengthening labormanagement relationships

Improving workplace culture, and evaluating and planning various labor-management and personnel policies

Shareholders

Timely and appropriate disclosure of operation and financial results to shareholders and investors, and constructive dialogues toward sustained growth and enhancement of corporate value

Communication methods and frequency

Incorporation into corporate activities

Toyota

●Shareholders’ Meeting (once a year)

Unconsolidated and consolidated financial statements, audit and supervisory board reports, and deliberation and decisions on resolutions

●Financial results announcement (four times a year)
Press and telephone conferences to explain Toyota’s financial status and initiatives

●Individual meetings (as needed)

Explanation and discussion on financial status, local projects, technologies, products, etc.
with institutional and private investors

●Investor information website, etc. (as needed)

Providing information on financial status, business details, etc.

Improving management quality through constructive dialogue

Business Partners

Close communication to achieve a mutually beneficial relationship based on mutual trust

Communication methods and frequency

Incorporation into corporate activities

【Dealers】 and events (as needed)
Sharing corporate policies

●Various meetings, seminars,

【Suppliers】 with supplier associations, seminars, and events (as needed)

●Supplier conventions, various meetings

Building closer, mutually beneficial relationships based on mutual trust

Sharing purchasing policies, and strengthening mutual study and partnerships

Local Communities/Global Society

Dialogue with various stakeholders to build good relationships with local communities and to solve global social and environmental issues

Communication methods and frequency

Incorporation into corporate activities

●Roundtable conferences with local residents (several times a year)

Explanation and discussions with local representatives on Toyota’s initiatives at each plant

●Inviting local communities to Toyota’s events and participating in local events
(as needed)

Social gatherings with local residents

Promoting mutual understanding and forming stable local communities

●Participating in joint projects between public and private sectors (as needed)
Cooperating in progressive initiatives such as verification tests

Improving advanced technologies and recognizing/ resolving social issues

●Participating in economic and industry organizations (as needed)

Participating in the planning and implementation phases of various organizations’ initiatives
A founding member of the World Business
Council for Sustainable Development
(WBCSD)

Introducing policies to improve the vitality of the nation/industries

●Participating in collaborative activities with NGOs and NPOs (as needed)
Social contribution activities in each region around the world

Recognizing social needs in individual regions

Sustainability Data Book

Sustainability Data Book Overview
Overview of Toyota Motor Corporation

Promoting Sustainability

Environment

Society

Governance

Performance Data

Public policy

Toyota has always maintained transparent and fair relationships with political parties and the

administration (government agencies) and endeavored to take appropriate action in accordance with

laws and regulations globally. While working to maintain sound relationships, we will share expertise and

the values of Toyota, exchange opinions, and hold dialogues with the governments of various countries

toward the goal of solving various social issues. We respect all our stakeholders, not only political and

administrative organs, including our customers, local communities and employees, and cooperate with

them, thereby achieving producing happiness for all.

Toyota places a high priority on activities through industry organizations. Many Toyota management

executives and employees have participated in various committees of the Japan Automobile

Manufacturers Association (JAMA) and the Japan Business Federation (Keidanren). For example,

seeing the environment as one of the priority field, Toyota proactively participated in the formulation of

the JAMA's long-term vision for Global Warming Prevention, which formulate the zero CO2 emissions

challenge, and Keidanren’s Challenge Zero declaration, which aims at a decarbonized society through

innovation.

Toyota respects its founding spirit and SDGs and will make efforts to realize a future mobility society

where freedom of mobility is available to all and to establish closer economic relationships with various

foreign countries. To this end, we will continuously promote activities by enhancing cooperation within

the Toyota Group, and with automobile manufacturers associations and economic organizations both

inside and outside Japan.

Sustainability Data Book
Sustainability Data Book Overview
Overview of Toyota Motor Corporation

Promoting Sustainability

Environment

Society

Governance

Performance Data

Environment

For details of our initiatives in the Environment segment, please see the
Environmental Report.

Environmental
Report 2020

Environmental Report

Sustainability Data Book