Sustainable Value Enhancement

Code of Conduct and guidelines
Our Code of Conduct, which is applicable throughout the Group, provides guidance for our employees in the event of legal and ethical challenges in their daily work. It embodies the Group values of customer focus, top performance, creating value, renewability, respect, responsibility and sustainability. All employees are equally responsible for adhering to these principles.

International conventions, regulations and internal rules are also key guidelines for our conduct. We also acknowledge our commitment to the “Declaration on Social Rights and Industrial
Relationships at Volkswagen” (Volkswagen Social Charter), the
Charter on Labor Relations and the Temporary Work Charter, all of which address fundamental human rights, labor standards and principles.

Strategic stakeholder management
We cannot guarantee success in the long term without knowing the expectations of our stakeholders or actively communicating with them. As the complexity of the Volkswagen Group increases, so do the expectations of and our network of relationships with the various stakeholders. Our exchanges with them cover many aspects, ranging from expectation management to innovation momentum, down to identifying opportunities and risks. We are open to a constructive and equitable dialog where we learn from one another, but to which we can also contribute our own interests. Our goal is to agree on a common solution, but at the very least to gain a mutual understanding on our initial situation and positioning.

Our brands in particular hold comprehensive stakeholder dialogs that we combine at Group level to discuss Group-wide issues in detail. These include our membership of organizations that hold in-depth discussions on issues related to sustainable development.
At an international level, we are involved in the World Business
Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and participate in
CSR Europe, a leading European business network for corporate responsibility. In addition, we are represented on the board of econsense, the Forum for Sustainable Development of German
Business. We transfer the knowledge we gain from this to the brands and the regions.

Since 2002, we have also been committed to the UN Global
Compact, the largest and most important CSR initiative in the world.
Over 12,000 participants from more than 145 countries work together to shape a more sustainable and equitable world economy.
The Volkswagen Group and its brands make a significant contribution to this initiative. The values of the Global Compact comprise ten principles governing human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. We achieved the “Global Compact Advanced Level” in 2014 again thanks to our progress report on implementing these principles at our locations. Furthermore, we use our expertise to help other

companies in the Global Compact to embrace their global responsibility, for example through our active participation as a standing member of the advisory board for the “Sustainable
Supplier Chain” project.

We publish information about the stakeholder dialogs in our annual sustainability report so that our interaction with stakeholders is understandable. Stakeholder management is steered and coordinated by the Group CSR & Sustainability steering group, the Group’s CSR project team, and the brand and regional project teams. Since we selectively choose relevant departments for the project teams, we are also able to respond to the many requirements of the stakeholders concerned within a short time.

Our stakeholder management consists of a variety of instruments: dialogs, workshops, symposiums, public debates, social media, questionnaires, evaluations and projects. In order to coordinate these activities at strategic level, we document them in an IT-based stakeholder management system that is individually tailored to the Volkswagen Group’s requirements. Since 2014, it has supported us in connecting the relevant stakeholders to the key issues for the Company.

In 2014, we used the results of the comprehensive stakeholder questionnaires from brands and companies to identify these key issues. In order to systematically prioritize the issues identified, we evaluate them using the latest international sustainability studies and benchmark them against the guidelines and conventions that
Volkswagen is committed to. Internal bodies that also involve all brands and regions discuss and evaluate the key issues. These discussions center around three main criteria:
> the expectations of stakeholders, > the significance for the Company and
> the extent to which the Company can influence these issues.
The results give us the Volkswagen Group’s key action areas for achieving our goal of becoming the most sustainable automotive company in the world.

CSR Projects
The Volkswagen group initiates and manages a variety of CSR projects around the world, which are based on the following key principles:
> They are compatible with the Group’s principles while at the

same time addressing a specific local or regional issue.

> They demonstrate the diversity in the Group and in the social

environment in which the projects are implemented.

> They are the result of close stakeholder dialog with the local

players involved in implementation.

> Project management is the responsibility of the local units

working on the project.

Sustainable Value Enhancement
Sustainable Value Enhancement

Attractiveness as an employer

Participation
Participation
Participation

Training

Customer
Customer satisfaction satisfaction

Diversity
Diversity and equality and equality

Corporate responsibility responsibility responsibility

Environmentally
Environmentally friendly products friendly products / electrification electrification

Stability and profitability

Quality
Quality
Quality

Health

Intelligent
Intelligent mobility and mobility and networking networking networking

Climate and environmental protection

Compliance, risk management, corporate management, corporate governance governance governance

Supplier
Supplier relationships relationships relationships relationships

Vehicle
Vehicle safety

Resource conservation across the lifecycle

W O R L D

The Volkswagen Group supports a large number of projects that
The Volkswagen Group supports a large number of projects that promote the arts and culture, education, science, health and sport, promote the arts and culture, education, science, health and sport, or that serve to develop regional structures and conserve nature.
or that serve to develop regional structures and conserve nature.
These projects make CSR a learning platform for all brands and in
These projects make CSR a learning platform for all brands and in all of the Company’s regions. Our long-standing cooperation with all of the Company’s regions. Our long-standing cooperation with the German Nature and Biodiversity Conservation Union (NABU), the German Nature and Biodiversity Conservation Union (NABU), the contact we have to our local neighborhoods at many Group the contact we have to our local neighborhoods at many Group locations and our cooperation with the German Red Cross (DRK) locations and our cooperation with the German Red Cross (DRK) are examples of this.
are examples of this.

NABU has worked with Volkswagen AG for many years and, NABU has worked with Volkswagen AG for many years and, since the end of 2012, this alliance has been based on a new, since the end of 2012, this alliance has been based on a new, expanded cooperation and advisory agreement. NABU is a strategic expanded cooperation and advisory agreement. NABU is a strategic partner for Volkswagen on the Group’s path to becoming the most partner for Volkswagen on the Group’s path to becoming the most environmentally friendly automobile manufacturer in the world.
environmentally friendly automobile manufacturer in the world.

For over 15 years, Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles at the
For over 15 years, Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles at the
Hanover location has fostered extensive dialog with its neighbors;
Hanover location has fostered extensive dialog with its neighbors;
the plant there is in close proximity to residential areas. This made the plant there is in close proximity to residential areas. This made it possible to build up a climate of mutual understanding. In it possible to build up a climate of mutual understanding. In addition to communicating with its neighbors, the focus of the addition to communicating with its neighbors, the focus of the
Poznan location in Poland is on long-term initiatives to support and
Poznan location in Poland is on long-term initiatives to support and promote local community projects.
promote local community projects.

Humanity, public spirit and responsibility – these are the values
Humanity, public spirit and responsibility – these are the values on which the work of the German Red Cross is based, and which we on which the work of the German Red Cross is based, and which we also share in the Volkswagen Group. We are promoting sound, also share in the Volkswagen Group. We are promoting sound, balanced social development, in Germany and at our other balanced social development, in Germany and at our other

international locations. As part of its strategic partnership, the international locations. As part of its strategic partnership, the
Volkswagen Group thus helps the German Red Cross to find even
Volkswagen Group thus helps the German Red Cross to find even more people who are willing to volunteer their time. This goal is more people who are willing to volunteer their time. This goal is central to the partnership, in conjunction with strengthening the central to the partnership, in conjunction with strengthening the
Red Cross’s rescue service.
Red Cross’s rescue service.

The Volkswagen Group’s research and development activities
The Volkswagen Group’s research and development activities continued to concentrate on expanding our product portfolio and continued to concentrate on expanding our product portfolio and improving the functionality, quality, safety and environmental improving the functionality, quality, safety and environmental compatibility of our products in fiscal year 2014.
compatibility of our products in fiscal year 2014.

Focus of our research and development activities
Focus of our research and development activities
We plan to cut the average CO2 emissions of the Volkswagen Group’s
We plan to cut the average CO2 emissions of the Volkswagen Group’s new European passenger car fleet to 120 grams per kilometer by new European passenger car fleet to 120 grams per kilometer by
2015. We have already succeeded in reducing CO2 emissions over
2015. We have already succeeded in reducing CO2 emissions over the past five years by 25 grams of CO2 per kilometer to 126 grams of the past five years by 25 grams of CO2 per kilometer to 126 grams of
CO2 per kilometer. Since 2012, the CO2 emissions for vehicle
CO2 per kilometer. Since 2012, the CO2 emissions for vehicle manufacturers’ new European passenger car fleets have been manufacturers’ new European passenger car fleets have been regulated by law: for 2014, the emissions of 80% of the new vehicle regulated by law: for 2014, the emissions of 80% of the new vehicle fleet were not permitted to exceed the statutory level of 130 grams of fleet were not permitted to exceed the statutory level of 130 grams of
CO2 per kilometer. The figure for the Volkswagen Group in the
CO2 per kilometer. The figure for the Volkswagen Group in the reporting period was 115 grams of CO2 per kilometer. We currently reporting period was 115 grams of CO2 per kilometer. We currently offer a total of 532 model variants (engine-transmission combioffer a total of 532 model variants (engine-transmission combinations) that emit less than 130 grams of CO2 per kilometer. For nations) that emit less than 130 grams of CO2 per kilometer. For

Sustainable Value Enhancement

C O 2 E M I S S I O N S O F T H E V O L K S W A G E N G R O U P ' S E U R O P E A N ( E U 2 8 ) N E W P A S S E N G E R C A R F L E E T in grams per kilometer

* Subject to official publication by the European Commission.

416 model variants, we are already below the threshold of 120 grams of CO2 per kilometer. Of these, 85 model variants are even below 100 grams of CO2 per kilometer (see chart on page 123).

Recognizing new developments in society, politics, technology, the environment and the economy at an early stage is of core importance to Volkswagen, since these form an important basis for innovations and our business success. Volkswagen’s Group
Research function constantly addresses the latest trends and has established research offices in the key global automotive markets.
Research offices in China, Japan, the USA and other locations observe technological areas relevant to the automotive industry, conduct cooperative projects with research institutions and local companies, and thus capture new insights for the Volkswagen
Group.

In addition to drivetrain system electrification (see the section entitled “Fuel and drivetrain strategy” on page 149), development work in 2014 focused on connectivity, i.e. the link between the vehicle and its surrounding environment. The speed at which the functionality and market penetration of networked online systems are growing makes it increasingly important for vehicles to be able to network to the driver’s own devices, to other vehicles and to their surrounding environment, particularly infrastructure. This increasing functionality is accompanied by new types of display and control concepts. The shift towards replacing buttons and switches with touchscreen displays and recognition sensors is continuing, and is reflected in our vehicles.

One of the Audi brand’s most important development areas is piloted driving. Driver assistance should make the job easier whenever it makes sense – not just when maneuvering in tight parking spaces or in parking lots, but also for example in slowmoving traffic on the highway. Once the necessary conditions (e.g.

the legal basis) are in place, functions like these could go into series production in the next few years. Audi has shown what the technology can already do: the Audi RS 7 piloted driving concept completed a lap of the Hockenheim Grand Prix track in the reporting period at racing speeds of up to 240 km/h – without a driver. The results of this test are being integrated into the development of series models and are helping to increase the safety and comfort of future vehicles.

Volkswagen introduced innovative LED systems for front and rear lighting in the volume segment in 2014, making the technology available to a broader customer base. The latest LED tail light is the first in the world to have an integrated animated brake light function, which increases perception speed. A compact projection model means that the new, highly functional LED headlights incorporate lights for country driving, urban areas and highways, dynamic curve lighting and, with the use of a camera, a dynamic high-beam assistant. Volkswagen will systematically continue to implement LED technology (including the masked high beam
“Dynamic Light Assist”) in the volume segment; introduction in the compact class is scheduled for 2015.

Body shell production remains a strategic development focus.
Volkswagen is the first automobile manufacturer to use hot-formed, high-strength steels in series models. We are also pursuing a vehicle- and platform-specific composite material approach in this area, i.e. the use of diverse materials in a body shell. We are also systematically integrating our extensive experience with lightweight materials, in particular aluminum, into the Modular Transverse
Toolkit (MQB). Volkswagen has developed and patented resistance element welding for the application of these materials. This new technique is used to bond different materials to steel. Aluminum is also increasingly being used in the development of new platforms

Sustainable Value Enhancement

on which vehicles such as the Touareg and Phaeton are based. We are also researching into economical lightweight construction technologies for series production as part of the Open Hybrid
LabFactory public-private partnership in collaboration with the
Lower Saxony Research Center for Vehicle Technology (NFF) at the
Technical University of Braunschweig, the Fraunhofer Gesellschaft and various other industry partners. The aim is to have around 200 researchers from industry and science jointly developing hybrid lightweight structures by the end of 2015. The foundation stone for the new development center in Wolfsburg was laid in 2014.

Innovations capture our customers’ imaginations
The Volkswagen Passenger Cars brand unveiled a wide range of innovations in the reporting period with the launch of the MQBbased eighth generation Passat. The new model is the world’s first car to be available with the Emergency Assist and Trailer Assist safety and assistance systems. Emergency Assist brings together
Lane Assist and Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) to form a new driver assistance system: as soon as the sensors detect that the driver is not steering, braking, or accelerating, the system makes an escalating sequence of attempts to wake the driver before bringing the car to an emergency stop. The hazard lights are automatically activated and the Passat executes gentle steering maneuvers to warn nearby traffic of the danger. The ACC system observes the traffic ahead to prevent a collision. With the Passat, Volkswagen is the world’s first automobile manufacturer to launch a driver assistance system to make maneuvering a vehicle with a trailer easier. Trailer Assist uses a rear view camera to observe and analyze the trailer’s hitch articulation angle, and to calculate the steering angle. The rearview mirror adjustor control doubles as a joystick, which the driver can use to change the car/trailer combination’s driving direction, meaning that all the driver needs to do is operate the brake and gas pedals. Inside the Passat, the Active Info Display system is the first interactive, fully digital instrument cluster to be fitted in a
Volkswagen. The instruments are displayed in virtual format only.
The speedometer and tachometer display areas can be customized to include information on driving, navigation and assistance functions. The Active Info Display can also show data from the infotainment system, such as telephone contact images or album covers.
In 2015, the new Passat will also become the first Volkswagen to be equipped with a head-up display. This projects key information such as speed or navigation images onto a retractable glass surface in front of the windshield – directly in the driver’s line of view. To the driver’s eyes, the data appear to be projected roughly two meters in front of the vehicle. This means that there is far less need to

switch between looking at the instruments and looking at the road, reducing the rate at which the driver’s eyes become fatigued. The
Traffic Jam Assist, the enhanced Area View system and an expanded
City Emergency Braking function with pedestrian detection round off the Passat’s driver assistance systems. The new Passat’s range of engines also includes new innovations: the plug-in hybrid GTE version combines a 115 kW (156 PS) TSI engine and an 85 kW
(115 PS) electric motor to generate a system output of 160 kW
(218 PS). In all-electric driving, the Passat GTE can cover up to
50 km, with a total range of more than 1,000 km.

The e-Golf and Golf GTE introduced e-mobility into Volkswagen’s popular series in 2014, heralding a new chapter in the
Golf’s distinguished track record. Fitted with an 85 kW (115 PS) electric motor, the e-Golf consumes 12.7 kWh per 100 km (NEDC), making it the most efficient electric vehicle in its class. Its inbuilt lithium-ion battery gives it a range of up to 190 km. The e-Golf also comes with an optional heat pump for particularly energy-efficient heating. This utilizes both heat from the ambient air and the heat given off by the drive system components. The energy from the high-voltage battery that this saves helps increase the car’s range.
The plug-in hybrid Golf GTE is a zero-emission, long-distance sports car all in one. A 110 kW (150 PS) TSI engine and a 75 kW (102 PS) electric motor combine to create a new driving experience and a top speed of 222 km/h. The transmission uses a six-speed, dual-clutch gearbox (DSG) specially developed for hybrids. Fully-charged, the
Golf GTE can cover up to 50 km in all-electric driving, with an overall range of approximately 940 km. With average combined fuel consumption of just 1.5 l/100 km and CO2 emissions of 35 g/km, it sets new standards in efficiency and sustainability.

Audi also launched a plug-in hybrid in 2014: the Audi A3 e-tron.
Combining the strengths of an electric drive system with the advantages of an internal combustion engine, the first premium compact car to be equipped with this innovative drive system is perfectly suited to daily use. A state-of-the art 110 kW (150 PS) TFSI engine and a 75 kW (102 PS) electric motor generate system power of 150 kW (204 PS). Its combined average fuel consumption is
1.5 l/100 km, with CO2 emissions of 35 g/km.

In addition, the Audi brand unveiled the third generation of the
Audi TT in the reporting period. The profile of the design icon was systematically enhanced: the roof line was tightened, the wheelbase lengthened and the overhangs shortened, making the new TT even sportier and more dynamic than its predecessor. But the newest generation also scores points in terms of efficiency: the vehicle weight has been reduced by 50 kg, helping set new standards in the sports car class with CO2 emissions of 110 g/km.

Sustainable Value Enhancement

Number of vehicles

 100g CO2 /km

 120g CO2 /km

 130g CO2 /km

Porsche launched the Macan compact SUV in fiscal year 2014: its fifth series. The Macan’s sporty sloping roof line is reminiscent of a coupé, and combined with a wraparound bonnet gives it a confident and powerful appearance. Its rear features eye-catching, threedimensional LED taillights, while the interior exudes sporty elegance and high-quality materials. An efficient range of engines rounds off the vehicle concept. The new 911 Targa was another highlight for Porsche in 2014. Like the legendary original Targa of
1965, it features a characteristic fixed bar in place of a B pillar. At the press of a button, the rear window opens and the roof panel disappears automatically behind the back seats. It takes only 19 seconds to open or close this innovative roof.

Lamborghini premiered the Huracán, the replacement for its successful Gallardo, in 2014. The sharp-edged design of the
Huracán, whose innovative light-weight chassis is made of carbon and aluminum elements, focuses on a continuous line from the front to the rear of the vehicle. The 449 kW (610 PS) V10 engine catapults the Huracán from 0 to 100 km/h in only 3.2 seconds. Its top speed is over 325 km/h.

Scania presented the third generation of its efficient Euro 6 engines with SCR (selective catalytic reduction) exhaust gas aftertreatment in the reporting period. The improved Scania retarder (a key component of the integrated braking system) with new fuelsaving freewheeling function and the new version of Scania’s EcoRoll system, which now selects gears even more intelligently on downward slopes, are also available from 2014. Scania also demonstrated the further savings potential offered by the use of new low-viscosity oils with unique lubricating qualities.

The new MAN TGX EfficientLine 2, which has been specifically designed to reduce fuel consumption, comes with the full range of efficiency technologies. These include in particular the EfficientCruise GPS cruise control system, the TopTorque torque enhancer and the latest version of MAN TeleMatics for data exchange between the vehicle and dispatcher. EfficientCruise was unveiled in 2014.
This GPS-based system controls the speed of trucks or buses and helps save fuel and reduce CO2 emissions. The TGX EfficientLine 2 is more than 6% more fuel-efficient than its predecessor.

MAN presented the MAN 12V175D, the first variant of its new high speed engine series, in fiscal year 2014. The 12-cylinder engine is fully designed for the requirements of commercial shipping and is optimized for use in ferries, offshore supply vessels, tugboats and all-purpose vessels. The engine also scores points in environmental friendliness: its compact and modular exhaust gas aftertreatment system uses selective catalytic reduction and is based on MAN’s Ad Blue technology.

Sustainable Value Enhancement

Studies and concept vehicles pave the way to the future
The Volkswagen Passenger Cars brand offered a glimpse of a possible SUV series in the vehicle category below the Tiguan with the release of the T-Roc study at the Geneva Motor Show. This threedoor vehicle based on the Modular Transverse Toolkit (MQB) features a progressive design, functional interior and innovative infotainment solutions. Thanks to two removable roof panels, which can be stowed in the boot with just a few movements, it also offers the summery lightness of a convertible.

Volkswagen Passenger Cars presented a combination of sporty coupé and comfortable saloon at the Auto China show with its New
Midsize Coupé study. With a shallow, wide body shell and a low profile, the vehicle spans the gap between the compact and midrange classes. Its long bonnet, powerful roof line and unmistakable
C pillar with short boot form a dynamic silhouette. 20 inch chrome rims, LED headlights with 3D optics, and a striking radiator grill emphasize the model’s sportiness and elegance.

Audi presented potential additions to its TT series in 2014 with the TT offroad and TT Sportback concepts. The four-door TT offroad concept completely reinterprets the design language of the TT, combining the sporty character of a coupé with the features of a compact SUV. The TT Sportback concept retains the series’ design language, but has elongated sporty lines with more tension, similar to the A5 Sportback and A7 Sportback. Its high-performance
294 kW (400 PS) TFSI engine takes the car from 0 to 100 km/h in less than 4 seconds.

Bentley incorporated plug-in hybrid technology into one of its vehicles for the first time in 2014. The Bentley Hybrid Concept is based on the Mulsanne flagship and is up to 25% more powerful with 70% less CO2 emissions. The brand’s aim is for its first series model with hybrid technology to be an SUV, available from 2017.
The plan is then to roll out hybrid technology throughout its entire vehicle range.

Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles offered a glimpse into the numerous passenger and goods transport solutions that will be offered by the new generation of the Multivan/Transporter at the
IAA Commercial Vehicles show 2014 in Hanover with its TRISTAR study. The concept vehicle represents a successful combination of the best features found in the current T model series. Its off-road capability combined with flexible transport and storage solutions for work and leisure were well received.

Leveraging synergies increases efficiency
Our Technical Development department worked intensively on leveraging further synergies between the brands in fiscal year 2014.
The focus here was on efficient use of resources in technical development, with the goal of safeguarding the Group’s long-term competitiveness. The Group Board of Management Technology
Committee drove forward cross-brand cooperation, in particular in

the primary technology fields of connectivity, piloted driving, emobility and lightweight construction. The individual brands are increasingly making use of our modular toolkits, which ensure synergy effects both between models in one series and across all series and brands. In addition, 2014 saw the start of a cross-brand cooperation initiative in development processes. This aims to ensure that methodology and system development can be further improved in future. The brands are benefitting from an intensified exchange of best practices, e.g. in virtual development. The joint development of IT tools is designed to reduce future IT expenses.
Further synergies can be leveraged in heavy commercial vehicles following the full acquisition of Scania. As part of the cooperation, Scania’s transmission hardware will gradually be implemented in
MAN’s TGS and TGX series vehicles from 2016. In addition, the intention is for the next generation of Scania’s current transmission portfolio to be developed jointly. This partnership is designed to result in components that set global standards in commercial vehicle technology, while safeguarding brand identity.

Pooling strengths with strategic alliances
The Volkswagen Group is systematically pressing ahead with research into and the ongoing development of high-voltage battery systems for electric and plug-in hybrid drives in cooperation with expert battery manufacturers. We continued and intensified these cooperative projects in the reporting period. VOLKSWAGEN VARTA
Microbattery Forschungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. KG, which we manage together with VARTA Microbattery GmbH, successfully continued its work and achieved important research results in the field of electric vehicle batteries in 2014.

Our collaborative projects with the Budapest University of
Technology and Economics and the Lawrence Berkeley National
Lab in California – as well as with other national and international partners – are also in the area of battery research.

We continued our cooperation with Daimler AG in 2014 to produce the Crafter; this arrangement will continue until 2016.

Integrating external R&D expertise
In addition to our own internal development resources, the capacity of development services providers is important for our development process. They will help us to systematically advance our model rollout and to successfully complete projects with the quality we expect and reduced development times in the coming years. The use of development service providers will be coordinated more closely between Group brands in order to benefit from increased economies of scale. We are also constantly expanding our cooperation with subsequent series suppliers in order to be able to tap their expertise in the development phase of modules and components, including at international development sites.

Sustainable Value Enhancement

Numerous patents filed
In fiscal year 2014, we filed 6,198 (5,948) patent applications worldwide for employee inventions, almost half of them in Germany.
The growth as against the prior year results in particular from the increased number of applications relating to driver assistance and information systems, alternative drive systems and lightweight construction, and once again pays testament to the Company’s high innovative ability.

Key R&D figures
The Automotive Division’s total research and development costs were up 11.7% year-on-year in the reporting period. Alongside new models, the main focus was on the electrification of our vehicle portfolio, an efficient range of engines and lightweight construction;
the proportion accounted for by alternative drive technologies increased again. The capitalization ratio rose to 35.1% (34.2%).
Research and development costs recognized in the income statement in accordance with IFRSs increased to €11.5 billion
(€10.2 billion). This meant that their ratio to sales revenue in the
Automotive Division amounted to 6.5% (5.8%).

On December 31, 2014, the Research and Development function – including the equity-accounted Chinese joint ventures – employed 45,742 people Group-wide (+4.5%), corresponding to
7.7% of the total headcount.

market-centric premium quality and innovations at competitive conditions; second, to meet cost targets and ensure the profitability of our products over their entire lifecycle; third, to ensure stable and efficient flows of goods and safeguard global volume growth through the permanent availability and consistently high quality of procured components; and fourth, to create optimal working conditions so that we can continue to raise employee satisfaction and the attractiveness of the procurement function.

We have assigned action areas to each of these goals and derived concrete programs from these. Each program comprises defined measures and responsibilities for all brands and regions which ensure that the procurement goals are achieved and will have long-term benefits. We pool our strengths throughout the
Group and take advantage of opportunities across all brands and all regions.

Volkswagen FAST – Future Automotive Supply Tracks
The “Volkswagen FAST – Future Automotive Supply Tracks” initiative was launched together with suppliers in order to strengthen the working relationship we have with them. We will work even more closely and quickly with our most important partners on the strategic issues of globalization and innovation. As a result, our global plans will be coordinated ahead of schedule and innovations will be implemented more efficiently and effectively.

Procurement focused its activities in 2014 in particular on safeguarding new vehicle start-ups, developing new procurement markets and ensuring continuity of supply to production.

Procurement strategy
Our goal to have the most competitive and attractive procurement organization is underpinned by four procurement goals derived from the Group Strategy 2018: first, to actively shape our technical and environmental innovation processes in order to provide

Procurement’s process optimization program
The optimization and standardization of our processes and systems for all Group brands and regions was pursued with high priority in fiscal 2014. This enables us to achieve maximum transparency and a high degree of consultation and integration within the Group. In order to ensure the sustainability of these optimization measures, we regularly conduct process and system audits.

The next step will be to strengthen our focus on the interface to suppliers. The goal is also to work together with them on the basis of optimal processes and systems.

€ million

Total research and development costs

of which capitalized development costs

Capitalization ratio in %

Amortization of capitalized development costs

Research and development costs recognized in the income statement

Sustainable Value Enhancement

Supply situation for procured components and raw materials
The supply of procured components to our component and vehicle plants remained stable in 2014, despite a greater number of unplanned events. After the first nine months of the reporting year, the number of major disruptions impacting supply, such as fires, floods and strikes, had already reached the prior-year level. The further increase in production volumes and the need to continuously adapt equipment to meet market requirements also dominated the supply situation. Together with our suppliers, we have overcome all of these challenges and supplied all areas of vehicle production with procured components.

The critical success factors for a secure supply situation are an efficient global early warning system based on continuous big data analyses, the globally available MQB and MLB modular toolkits with alternative sources of supply, the availability of all information on facilities, tool capacities and locations relevant to supply, and the processing of information on local risks.

Processes relating to Technical Development, Quality Assurance, Sales, Production/Logistics and Procurement across the business were further optimized, with the aim of securing capacity and removing bottlenecks. This will minimize response times and speed up troubleshooting.

Good cooperation with our procured component suppliers ensures that we achieve our supply goals. We once again strengthened this cooperation in the reporting period with a supplier symposium.

Over the course of 2014, the global economy registered slower growth with weaker economic signals seen in China, among other places. This also affected the prices for many raw and input materials such as crude oil, steel and rare earths, which stagnated or declined. In addition, the reporting period was dominated by political tensions, particularly in Russia and Ukraine. They had increasingly international repercussions, which were also reflected in prices on the sensitive raw materials markets. In order to counter risks associated with high volatility, specific and more long-term procurement strategies were used and will continue to be used in
Volkswagen procurement.

Procured component and supplier management assure quality

within the supply process
Procured component management, as the technical area of procurement, employs tool and process experts who safeguard new vehicle start-ups and aggregate projects worldwide in terms of both prevention and response. In addition, the experts underpin series production. In line with the Group-wide growth strategy, procured component management is focusing in particular on knowledge transfer at the start of global projects. Procured component management is globally networked. This means that synergy effects can be achieved in both production and process optimization at suppliers.

In the “Quality in Growth” program, procurement focuses on safeguarding start-ups and on managing the subcontractor structure. We hold cross-business area discussions with our suppliers to ensure that supplier training corresponds with Volkswagen’s quality and growth targets. The best practice approaches that we defined together enable us to continually improve and are anchored in common aims. The preventive safeguarding of startups is not only enhanced by simulated series production at the suppliers, but also by integrating performance tests across all business areas at various stages of the product development process prior to new vehicle start-ups. This enables us to identify problems related to supply volume and quality in good time and to counteract them.

Developing new procurement markets
Procurement works in 39 locations across 23 countries, ensuring that the production facilities are supplied with production materials of the required quality and amount for the long term and at competitive conditions. This ensures access to the relevant procurement markets against the background of increasing globalization.

In addition to established sources of supply, the number of qualified suppliers in new growth markets such as the ASEAN region is increasing. Our experience working with local suppliers, for example in Pekan, Malaysia, will be carried over into new projects via the regional procurement organization. This is increasing the size of our global supplier base.

Thanks to these approaches, procurement is able to secure a

reliable supplier base for new locations quickly and efficiently.

the “Volkswagen requirements

Sustainability in supplier relationships
In the reporting period, we further developed our existing “sustainability in supplier relationships” concept from 2006 by intein grating relations with business partners (Code of Conduct for business partners)” into contracts with our suppliers. Where justified, we conduct specific sample tests to check our suppliers’ compliance with sustainability standards.

for sustainability

In 2014 we again gave our suppliers intensive training in order to provide them with in-depth knowledge on sustainability, for example through topic-specific discussion events in Argentina, Brazil and Mexico. In Poland, Russia and Turkey, among other countries, our suppliers also received further classroom training, which was held together with other automobile manufacturers. Our own employees are continually informed about and trained on the issue of sustainability in supplier relationships.

Sustainable Value Enhancement

We have also continued working with our suppliers on this issue via the Group Business Platform, where an Internet-based training module on sustainability is available, among other things. All suppliers who are registered on the platform are also requested to complete this training module with a final performance review.

In addition, our business partners provide us with information about their sustainability status using a questionnaire available on the Group Business Platform; if necessary, a corporate unit will introduce improvement measures at the supplier.

The “sustainability in supplier relationships” concept helps us to create the necessary conditions for fulfilling our sustainability

standards together with our business partners and to secure volume flows for the long term.

Volkswagen Group purchasing volume
Volkswagen Group procurement mainly purchases production materials, services and capex centrally. In the reporting period, the purchasing volume – including the Chinese joint venture companies – increased by 7.7% to €145.5 billion. Suppliers in Germany accounted for a share of 36.1% (37.3%).

€ billion

Volkswagen Passenger Cars1

Audi2

ŠKODA

SEAT

Bentley

Porsche

Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles

Scania

Volkswagen Group

Europe/Other markets

North America

South America

Asia-Pacific1

+ 8.4

+ 8.8

+ 9.3

+ 11.8

+ 24.0

+ 33.9

+ 6.4

+ 1.6

+ 7.7

+ 6.3

+ 22.7

Today is digital

(cid:74)o(cid:90)(cid:87)(cid:111) i(cid:105) (cid:90)igi(cid:106)(cid:87)(cid:98)

(cid:62)ow (cid:90)igiti(cid:112)ation is (cid:89)hanging the automotive in(cid:90)ustry

Digitization is a megatrend that is increasingly changing the way we work and how we live our daily lives. Cars have become computers on wheels. Engine and chassis management, driver assistance systems, satellite navigation, communications and entertainment are developing at breakneck speed. At the same time car manufacturing is dominated by robots and the networking of machines, systems and people – the smart factory is becoming a reality. The digitization of cars and car manufacturing plays a key role in our
“Future Tracks” program. What is at stake nothing less than the opportunity to gain the leading position in the automotive industry where this trend is concerned through leveraging new solutions.
As a consequence, we will be able to exert a considerable influence on customer satisfaction, the strength of our products and the attractiveness of our working environment.

The Volkswagen Group invested over €11.5 billion in re search and development in the past year, more than any other company.
The Group employs 46,000 research and development staff worldwide. Our IT experts now number more than 10,000, because we know the key significance of digitization. Industrial production is entering a new era: the “Industry 4.0” project envisages factories where components travel through the production floor on small computer-controlled carts looking for free machines to process them – without human input. Tools and equipment

T H E C H A N G I N G (cid:61)AC E O (cid:61) I N D U S T RY

I N DUSTRY (cid:40)(cid:37)(cid:39)

I N DUSTRY (cid:41)(cid:37)(cid:39)

I N DUSTRY (cid:42)(cid:37)(cid:39)

Mechanization

Mass production

Automation and robotics

I N DUSTRY (cid:43)(cid:37)(cid:39)

Digitization/smart factory

(cid:40)(cid:41)(cid:47)

repair themselves and order their own replacement parts automatically. However, the machines will not just be locally controlled, networked and thus independent. Production will also be integrated with suppliers and sales. Comprehensively equipping all production stages with sensors and flexible manufacturing technologies aims to make it possible to deal with capacity fluctuations in an even more rapid and resource-efficient manner.
Customer desires can be implemented with even more customization, under “Industry 4.0”. We are already using many of the technologies on which “Industry 4.0” is based in our production process. Driverless transport systems promptly deliver parts, and intelligent tools and machines react to fluctuations and can be analyzed and serviced online. When new technologies have been proven to be reliable and secure in one area, we roll out their implementation in other areas. However, manufacturing under
“Industry 4.0” cannot be more expensive: it must help to reduce capital expenditures and ongoing costs. Motivated and well-qualified employees are also the key to success in the age of digital production. There will be an increasing focus on skilled jobs, e. g.
machine monitoring and trouble-shooting, maintenance and repair, programming and start-up control, as well as planning and communications.

Our sales specialists are taking advantage of the opportunities offered by digitization and are bringing car dealerships back to city centers with the virtual showroom. Audi City has already opened its doors in Berlin, Beijing and London. Innovative media technology is used to show visitors the entire Audi range:
they can view a realistic, almost life-size digital depiction of the vehicles on high-end floor-to-ceiling screens – a completely new brand experience.

Digitization is resulting in an unprecedented commercial and technological trend: the share of electrical components in vehicles is considerably higher today than it was only a few years ago, and this shift is set to continue. In cars, digitization makes connectivity possible. It mainly serves to reduce fuel consumption and emissions, but also to increase safety, comfort and driving pleasure. Car-to-x communication, which is due to be launched in the future, comprises car-to-car communication (i.e. the networking of vehicles with each other) on the one hand, and car-to-infrastructure communication (the networking of vehicles with drivers’ own devices, traffic infrastructure, the Internet and elements in the surrounding environment) on the other. This will use a wireless L A N standard developed jointly by automotive

Today is digital

manufacturers. The local network will cover all devices transmitting or receiving data within a range of several hundred meters. In contrast to a server-based system, the vehicle only communicates with other vehicles and infrastructure elements that are located in its immediate vicinity.

The main focus of car-to-car communication is on improving safety. For example, communication between vehicles makes sure that the driver is warned in good time about the tail end of a traffic jam. The driver can also be notified about the location of an emergency vehicle and its direction of travel. This can enable a rescue lane to be formed earlier. In addition, the driver’s vehicle can relay information to the surrounding area about breakdowns, accidents, or critical road conditions. If a vehicle in front brakes unusually hard, this information is relayed to the vehicles behind via an electronic brake light, enabling the drivers to adjust their speed and shortening the time taken to react.

C A R(cid:36)T O (cid:36)X(cid:36) CO (cid:68) (cid:68) U N I C AT I O N

Car-to-infrastructure communication uses specially-equipped traffic lights, roadworks, or other infrastructure elements to display additional information for drivers so as to constantly improve the traffic flow and improve safety. For example, the vehicle receives information from a set of traffic lights about when they will change and uses this to calculate a recommended optimal speed. Approaching vehicles transmit information such as their location and speed to the traffic lights, enabling the lights to change to match the traffic flow. Information about roadworks, such as their length or the current traffic conditions, is included in optimal route calculation. The system calculates weather hazards based on meteorological data from measuring stations and vehicles. It then relays this to other road users, who can adapt their driving or route planning accordingly. Further sources of information tell drivers where to find free spaces in nearby parking lots or warn them of local road closures. If the route passes

(cid:40)(cid:41)(cid:48)

close to a tourist attraction, it sends this information to the vehicle and invites the driver to make a stop.

In parallel to the driver assistance and safety aspects, the increasing interactivity between the vehicle and its occupants adds a whole new level of comfort. The car is becoming ever more closely integrated with the communications environment of consumer electronics, e. g. smartphones and tablets. Online apps are finding their way into vehicles. The Volkswagen Group’s Modular Infotainment System (MIB) forms the basis for this and can be used across brands and series. After the successful launch of MirrorLink, that reproduces smartphone content on the vehicle’s display, in 2014, Volkswagen is continuing to work on integrating consumer electronics. The Media Control system introduced in the new Passat is an example of this: the rear passengers can operate all of the key entertainment functions in comfort via their devices, e. g. surf the internet or watch movies, and can even send address book entries and search results to the infotainment system as the navigation destination. We unveiled a further innovation in a concept car:
videos can be shown on all tablets in the vehicle simultaneously, irrespective of their physical origin. The soundtrack is not just audible via headphones, but can be played in sync over the car’s speaker system. Any device that is connected to the vehicle’s wireless LA N can be used as a source. Taking these opportunities further, the following situation is conceivable in the near future:
while the owner of a plug-in hybrid is taking a shower in the morning, their car has already communicated with the technology in their house and is charged. It has already switched on the heating or air conditioning, depending on the weather. The driver leaves the house and approaches the car, which recognizes them via their smartphone and opens the door. The seat position is preadjusted, as are the lighting and music. The satellite navigation system has long since received route information from the traffic management system or other vehicles, and sends him on a shortcut to avoid the morning rush hour traffic. The driver has a reminder in their smartphone calendar to do the shopping, so there is naturally a supermarket along the customized route.

As an automobile manufacture we spare no effort in ensuring that we do not carelessly lose control over data access where these new opportunities are concerned. It is of key importance to ensure that our customers’ data is kept as safe and secure as possible at all times. This is the condition for these new opportunities to be accepted and leveraged. We carefully review which technologies we can develop in-house, and where we can work together with qualified partners. As a result, the Volkswagen Group is working intensively on developing an intelligent and promising alliance with IT companies, e. g. via the Open Automotive Alliance aimed at integrating the Android platform in our vehicles.

It is both our intention and our commitment to provide compelling responses to all digitization issues via “Future Tracks”.
The desire for individual mobility is changing, but it remains uninterrupted and is expanding.

Sustainable Value Enhancement

In fiscal year 2014, the Volkswagen Group again expanded its production network and increased its global production volume by
5.0%, exceeding 10 million vehicles for the first time. Productivity increased by 4.2% year-on-year despite the continuing difficult conditions in many markets. In the South American market in particular, declining volumes impacted productivity trends. However, this was offset by the increasing unit sales in China and the
Group’s systematic implementation of its production system.

“Production 2018” strategy
The vision of our “Production 2018” strategy is to build the world’s most powerful and most fascinating automotive production system.
To make this a reality, four core objectives were defined. In all
Group brands and all regions, a systematic effort was made in fiscal year 2014 to excite our customers, lift the earnings contribution, expand production capacities and make production more attractive to employees. We further developed the 13 challenges that were defined in 2011 so that we will be able to achieve our goals by 2018, and are systematically implementing the measures formulated for each of these challenges. Our strategy ensures that production is prepared for future demands for the long term, by continually improving production processes and connecting them across all of our locations.

Production locations
In November 2014, the Group’s latest location in China was opened with the gearbox plant in Tianjin. The Volkswagen Group’s global production network thus comprised 118 locations at the end of the reporting period. This figure takes into account a reworked and standardized numbering system, whereby the increase resulted in particular from commercial vehicles. At the end of 2014, the production network consisted of 69 passenger car, commercial vehicle and motorcycle locations as well as 49 powertrain and component sites.

With 72 locations for vehicle and component production, Europe remains our most important production region; 29 of these sites are located in Germany alone. The Asia-Pacific region is playing an increasingly important role, with 29 locations. The number of production sites in North America (four) and South
America (nine) remained unchanged in the reporting period. The
Group operates four locations in Africa.

Since the end of 2014, we have been constructing a new plant in
Wrzesnia, Poland, for the Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles brand, in addition to the existing plant in Poznan. Production of the Crafter will begin there in the second half of 2016, with an annual capacity of 100,000 vehicles.

To achieve our ambitious growth objectives for the Chinese market, the foundations for a new vehicle plant in Qingdao with a capacity of 300,000 vehicles a year were laid in November 2014. In

addition, a decision was made to expand the capacities of the
Yizheng and Ningbo plants by 150,000 vehicles a year each.

In the US market, the Volkswagen Group is systematically working toward achieving the unit sales goal for 2018 of one million vehicles and is further expanding its industrial commitment.
Assigning production of the new midsize SUV to the Chattanooga location marks an important step in this direction. In addition, it was decided that the long wheelbase Tiguan will be produced in
North America for the US market from 2017.

The growth markets of the ASEAN region are of major importance for the Volkswagen Group. With a population of approximately 600 million and continued rapid economic growth in many countries, this region offers high potential for demand. The automotive markets in Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia in particular are already well developed; they represent the largest vehicle markets in the region.

Together with our Malaysian partner DRB-Hicom, we have been locally producing the Passat for the Malaysian market in
Pekan since 2011. The Jetta and Polo models are also assembled at this location. We are gradually increasing vertical integration at the factory and are reviewing the addition of other successor models.

In Indonesia, we have been assembling six models for the
Volkswagen Passenger Cars, Audi and Volkswagen Commercial
Vehicles brands locally since 2009, together with our partner
Indomobil. The aim is to further extend our involvement, by expanding our product portfolio and increasing vertical integration.
Our Ducati brand has been present in Thailand since 2011.
Since the end of 2014, vehicle frames have also been produced and painted at the production facility in Amphur Pluakdaeng; local engine assembly has also begun. This additional factory expansion phase means that six Ducati models are already being produced in
Thailand.

The Volkswagen Group also has a presence in the ASEAN region with its Scania brand through partnerships. In order to take advantage of the region’s potential and further expand our market share there, we are examining additional possible alternatives for local production.

New start-ups and production milestones
In 2014, the Volkswagen Group implemented a total of 60 vehicle start-ups in 32 locations across 16 countries; of these, 21 are new or successor product start-ups, while the other 39 start-ups were attributable to derivatives and product upgrades.

In January 2014, production of the new Golf saloon began in
Mexico – our third core production location for the new generation of the bestseller alongside Europe and China; production of the
Golf Estate followed in December. In February, the start of production of the Golf Sportsvan in Wolfsburg rounded off the Golf family. Series production of the XL1 also began in February in
Osnabrück. In addition, we extended the vehicle range at the plant

Sustainable Value Enhancement

Share of total production 2014 in percent

3 locations (6%)

6 locations (6%)

39 locations (51%)

A S I A

17 locations (36%)

4 locations (1%)

in Foshan, China – which started operating in 2013 – to include the
Audi A3 Sportback and the Audi A3 Saloon, and at the Ningbo plant to include the ŠKODA Octavia and the Volkswagen Lamando. In addition to the e-up in Bratislava, the start-up in Wolfsburg of the second purely electric series vehicle – the e-Golf – in March marked another milestone. In July, Audi began production of the third generation of the TT in Györ, Hungary. Another significant event for the Volkswagen Passenger Cars brand was the production start for the new generation of the Passat at the Emden plant in August. The same month saw production of the sixth generation of the ŠKODA
Fabia start in Mladá Boleslav.

In addition to the new start-ups, there was a lot of start-up activity surrounding gas-powered models for the Volkswagen
Passenger Cars, ŠKODA and SEAT brands, as well as for plug-in hybrid vehicles for the Volkswagen Passenger Cars, Audi and
Porsche brands.

In the engine and transmission plants, there were over 30 startups in 2014 for new and more efficient powertrains and for expanding local production. At the end of 2014, the assembly of 1.5 l diesel engines specially designed for the Indian market began in
Pune; the new assembly line has an annual capacity of 100,000 engines. In the Polkowice plant in Poland, production of engines on the basis of the new Modular Diesel System began. The Kassel location has developed a new hybrid transmission and a hybrid module for the Audi A3 e-tron and the Golf GTE. The opening of the new gearbox plant in Tianjin means that Volkswagen is now also able to manufacture next generation direct shift gearboxes in China for the local market.

The Volkswagen Group again celebrated some important anniversaries in 2014: at the beginning of October, the 200

millionth Group vehicle rolled off the production line. In just under
15 years, the number of models produced by the Group has thus doubled (100 million vehicles produced by 1999). At the same time, the 2.5 millionth vehicle was recorded on the Group-wide MQB platform. In February, Volkswagen celebrated the two millionth
Tiguan manufactured worldwide. In September, Audi produced its two millionth SUV from the Q3, Q5 and Q7 family. The five millionth SEAT Ibiza left the production facilities at the Martorell location at the end of September. The Volkswagen Group also celebrated two production anniversaries with both of its Chinese joint ventures in 2014. FAW-Volkswagen produced its 10 millionth vehicle and Shanghai-Volkswagen its 12 millionth vehicle since it was established 30 years ago.

Flexibility in production
The modular toolkits allow us to design our production sites to be flexible. They generate synergy effects that enable us to reduce capital expenditure and make better use of existing capacities. With these toolkits we have created the conditions for using the production sites for several brands at the same time, and are implementing these systematically in terms of plant capacity utilization.
For example, the ŠKODA Kvasiny location in the Czech Republic will also produce a vehicle for the SEAT brand starting in 2016. Of the
40 passenger car locations, 19 are now already multibrand locations.
As the complexity of products increases, a factory must work at optimal capacity so as to continue manufacturing high-quality products that give customers maximum benefits at competitive prices.
This is all made possible by the standardization of production processes and operating equipment at an early stage. Consistent construction and design principles that are clearly defined in the

Sustainable Value Enhancement

form of product standards form the basis for this. We introduced
“concept consistency” to enable single-line production of different brands at a single production location. This ensures that common design principles, joining techniques and joining sequences are applied across the brands’ development and production areas.

The Group’s production system
To help us become the world’s most powerful and most fascinating automotive production platform, we must optimize and standardize our production processes. The Group’s value driven, synchronous production system provides us with the necessary methodologies and instruments for this. Our goal is to establish this Group production system throughout the world at all brand and regional locations so as to continually improve for the long term.

We have already made substantial progress toward this. In the future, we will turn our attention to further strengthening the
Group’s production system and increasing its presence. As a first step in this direction we are measuring the extent to which the methodologies and instruments are being implemented at the locations. The target/actual comparisons reveal action areas that are laid down in a project plan and worked through in a structured manner in the second step. As a synchronous Company, we are including all business areas so as to systematically optimize processes.

The increasing volume and complexity of our models and the size of our production network with its global supplier and customer structures also require maximum performance from logistics.
We will meet the increasingly demanding conditions with our crossbrand logistics concept. This concept will enable us to shape all our material and information processes for supplying the production locations and delivering vehicles to our customers even more efficiently across the Group. In addition to internal processes for providing materials to the assembly lines, the focus of our logistics concept is on upstream transportation and logistics processes between the locations and our suppliers, and the transportation chain for vehicles from the factory to customers.

Efficient production
We are committed to reducing the Group’s five fundamental environmental indicators by 25% by 2018 compared with 2010.
Production is significantly contributing to our becoming the world’s most sustainable automobile manufacturer.

We use synergies within the Group to make our production more ecological. In Group-wide environmental working groups we discuss strategic issues, prepare action packages, organize efficient data capture and track the extent to which our goals have been met.
We are also planning activities across the brands to train employees in the areas of environmental protection and energy efficiency.
Systematically sharing knowledge between the production locations allows us to benefit from our employees’ global expertise. Crosslocation analysis teams are developing methods to systematically reveal potential.

We document our ecological measures around the world using a system-based program. In 2014 for example, there were over 1,500 energy-related and environmental measures to improve production processes for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles. As a result, we reduced CO2 emissions by approximately 195,000 t. At the same time, this exchange of best practices shows that we are aligning economics with ecology; these measures save us over
€30 million per year.

In addition to the Group-wide activities, the brands also established their own frameworks for ecological restructuring that reflect the specific features of their corporate culture and brand image. For example, the Volkswagen Passenger Cars and Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles brands are pursuing all ecological measures related to efficient use of resources and lowering emissions in production in their holistic “Think Blue. Factory.” program. “Think Blue. Factory.” began in 2011 under the motto
“More sustainability – less environmental impact” and is part of
“Think Blue.”, the Volkswagen Passenger Cars brand’s holistic initiative promoting ecological sustainability. The ŠKODA brand’s
“GreenFuture” initiative is an ambitious program to achieve the
Group’s environmental targets; SEAT calls its program “ECOMOTIVE
Factory”. Audi established a framework for its commitment to the environment with the “ultra strategy”, Bentley launched the
“Environmental Factory” in the reporting period, while Scania combined its ecological activities under the concept of “Ecolution”, with MAN doing the same under its “climate strategy”.

The following examples from the reporting period demonstrate the successful implementation of ecological activities in production:

In the Salzgitter plant, a decentralized chip wringer was installed that will generate annual savings of €400,000. Removing chips from the coolant-lubricant emulsion directly at the production machines saves transportation and disposal costs for the emulsions, which are fed back into the machine after the chips have been separated. A second decentralized system is already being built at the Salzgitter plant.

In the Chemnitz plant we introduced more precise pump control for the cooling lubricant filtration system. This measure not only generates annual savings of 700,000 kWh of energy, but also around €70,000.

The introduction of new factory ventilation technology at the
Pune location in India could lead to savings of 430 MWh of energy and 1,500 m3 of water a year. Simulations were carried out at other production sites, for example with the central factory ventilation technology, and optimally adapted to the production conditions so that interactions can already be taken into account in the planning phase.

At the Polkowice location in Poland, we used energy value stream design for a connecting rod and thus achieved a quickly convertible energy efficiency potential of 10%. This corresponds to annual savings of €39,000.

Sustainable Value Enhancement

Energy supplies to our production sites are increasingly generating lower emissions. By using geothermal energy at the Györ location in
Hungary, the Audi brand reduces CO2 emissions by 23,000 t a year. Electrical energy from renewable sources fuels 50% of the
ŠKODA plant in Mladá Boleslav, reducing annual CO2 emissions by
200,000 t.

The Volkswagen Group’s unique product portfolio comprises twelve successful brands, including innovative financial services, that excite millions of customers worldwide, year in and year out. We further strengthened these brands’ unique features and consolidated our excellent market position in 2014.

Brand diversity in the Volkswagen Group
“Volkswagen – Das Auto.” More than ever, the goal of the Volkswagen Passenger Cars brand is to offer innovative automobiles of lasting value based on consistently responsible business policies.
Customers all over the world associate products from the Volkswagen Passenger Cars brand with quality, reliability and German engineering skill. Brand management always focuses on the wishes of our customers. They are the starting point for developing innovations that are driven by demand while remaining affordable.
This is our competitive advantage: based on this, the Volkswagen
Passenger Cars brand aims to become the most innovative volume manufacturer with the best quality in each class in the medium to long term.

“Vorsprung durch Technik” is not just a slogan for the Audi brand; it is an active brand promise that is delivered throughout the world, making Audi one of the most highly desired brands in the premium segment. Its objective is to become the most successful brand in this segment. To achieve this, Audi relies heavily on its progressive image, high-value products and sporty character. Its innovative engineering solutions and emotional design language have won it numerous honors and awards.

Intelligent concepts and a good value proposition have made
ŠKODA a very successful brand in Europe and China. The “Simply
Clever” slogan combines forward-looking functionality with an impressive space concept that is technically simple but offers sophisticated and practical features.

Design, passion, quality and constant updating – these are the distinctive characteristics of the youthful, dynamic Spanish SEAT brand that is aiming for stronger growth, particularly in Europe.
SEAT’s goal of combining technological precision and superb engineering artistry with emotional design is expressed in its
“TECHNOLOGY TO ENJOY” slogan.

focused on finding intelligent ways to convert performance into speed – and success – not just with more horsepower, but also with more ideas.

Exclusivity, elegance and power – these are the defining qualities of our Bentley, Bugatti and Lamborghini brands in the luxury vehicle segments. They round off the Volkswagen Group’s brand diversity in the passenger cars segment.

Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles stands for superior mobility with its three core values – reliability, economy and partnership.
The brand offers a range of different transportation solutions based on the highest levels of engineering. The vehicles are tailored to meet the individual transportation needs of customers in retail and craft businesses, as well as civil authorities and service providers.
Private customers value the brand’s family-friendly MPVs and recreational motor homes.

The Swedish Scania brand’s core values are “customer first”, “respect for the individual” and “quality”. This successful company has been manufacturing high-performance trucks and buses featuring extremely innovative technology for over 100 years. The brand offers its customers efficient transport solutions backed by excellent service offerings and financial services.

The core values of the MAN brand – and its key success factors – are reliability, innovation, dynamic strength and openness. As well as trucks and buses, the company is a leading manufacturer of diesel engines, turbomachinery, turnkey power plants and special gear units.

Ducati is one of the most famous manufacturers of premium motorcycles. Its emotionally charged products thrill the Italian brand’s customers with their premium quality craftsmanship, uncompromising performance and challenging dynamics.

Volkswagen Financial Services provides

the Volkswagen
Group’s private and business customers with the right products and services across all vehicle segments. It is the key to mobility for customers around the world.

Customer satisfaction and customer loyalty
The Volkswagen Group’s sales activities focus consistently on turning our customers into even more satisfied customers – this is our top priority. Thanks to the measures and process improvements we introduced, we were able to further increase satisfaction amongst our vehicle buyers, after-sales customers and dealership partners in the reporting period.

The Group’s brands regularly calculate customer satisfaction levels, focusing on products and services. They derive new measures from the survey results to achieve even greater customer satisfaction.

Sports car manufacturer Porsche’s brand values are a combination of opposites: exclusivity and acceptance, tradition and innovation, performance and suitability for daily use, design and functionality. Porsche’s philosophy is “to achieve maximum output from minimum input”. From the very beginning, Porsche has

Measured in terms of customer satisfaction with their products, the Audi and Porsche brands are among the leaders in the core
European markets in comparison to other Group brands and their competitors. The other brands in the Group also score higher than competing brands.

Sustainable Value Enhancement

Customers are loyal to our brands and trust them when we meet, or better still, exceed their expectations of our products and services.
The extent of this trust is impressively illustrated by our loyalty figures, which we measure on a regular basis. The Volkswagen
Passenger Cars brand, for example, has maintained a high level of customer loyalty in its core European markets for several years in a row and raised it even higher in 2014. The loyalty of Audi, Porsche and ŠKODA customers has likewise kept these brands in the upper rankings in a competitive comparison for a number of years.

Structure of Group sales
The Volkswagen Group’s multibrand structure helps promote the independence of its brands. Nevertheless, we use cross-brand sales activities to increase sales volumes and market share and increase sales efficiency, while cutting costs and improving earnings contributions.

In the reporting period, we strengthened dealer profitability in particular. This was achieved firstly with cost-cutting programs and secondly by expanding the business volume for each dealer. Our distribution network strategy calls for us to work with strong partners and leverage the potential of all business fields, and this, as well as the difficult economic situation in some countries, led us to restructure the distribution network. The focus was on a close working relationship with dealers and their profitability. We use
Group companies to manage our wholesale business in over 20 markets. A central department makes sales activities more transparent and more profitable, as well as creating synergies between the different brands. This allows wholesale companies to learn quickly and efficiently from the Group-wide benchmarking process and from the best practices adopted by individual firms. The central department is instrumental in helping us achieve the goals laid down in the Group’s Strategy 2018.

Fleet customer business further expanded
Our relationships with fleet customers are often of a long-term nature. This customer group guarantees more stable vehicle sales than in the private customer segment in a volatile environment. The
Volkswagen Group has an established base of business fleet customers in Germany and the rest of Europe in particular. Our extensive product offering enables us to satisfy their individual mobility needs from a single source. This allowed us to further consolidate, and in some cases even extend, our well established position in Europe in 2014.

When selecting products and partners, we take great care to obtain the greatest possible customer benefits and generate maximum synergies for the Group, while, at the same time, preserving the identities of our brands.

We also provided additional sales and after-sales services to our

electric vehicle customers.

Used car business
The used car business is the fourth key source of income in our dealer organization after the new car, services and parts businesses.
We ensure the profitability of the used car business by providing efficient processes and systems and highly qualified employees, as well as clear guidelines and management tools.

We focus on professional used car management at both the wholesale and retail levels. Customer-centric financial services are the basis for attractive product packages. In addition, we further strengthened our proprietary used car brands and rolled them out internationally so as to ensure that our offerings also meet customer needs. Cross-brand activities enable us to implement examples of best practice throughout the Group, benefiting from economies of scale and leveraging synergies.

We established and standardized processes for used cars at all distribution levels, enhanced and increasingly harmonized the underlying IT infrastructure, and introduced uniform management performance indicators.

To ensure long-term success in our used car business, we attach considerable importance to stable residual values – and this is also in the interest of our customers. We have set up system-based reporting functions for this purpose.

After-sales and service
In after-sales, the timely provision of original parts and individual service are instrumental in ensuring passenger car customer satisfaction. Globally, our service centers do not just guarantee high product quality – above all they offer tailored service solutions for customers of all vehicle classes across all Group brands.

Across the world, our commercial vehicles business also stands for products of the highest quality, along with strong customer relationships. Fuel efficiency, maintenance and operating costs, the residual resale value of vehicles, and the purchase price – these are critical buying criteria for our customers, in addition to availability.
We are continually extending both our after-sales activity and our comprehensive service offering, and these play an important role in increasing customer satisfaction.

The e-mobility challenge for Group sales
The Volkswagen Group’s e-mobility strategy covers the development of customer-centric products and business models to complement its range of electric vehicles.

Scania is adding services to its range of trucks, buses and engines that guarantee fuel efficiency, reliability and good vehicle availability. These also include the Scania Rent Truck & Trailer service that helps to overcome short-term fleet capacity problems.

Sustainable Value Enhancement

Scania Parts and the Genuine Parts Warranty ensure that most replacement parts are available within 24 hours throughout most of
Europe. Drive behavior is the key factor affecting operating efficiency, wear and tear of tires and parts, as well as traffic safety.
Drivers receive advanced training in even more efficient and safer driving techniques at the Scania Academy. Scania’s workshop service and service contracts offer customers a high degree of safety in addition to consistently high quality.

The MAN brand also offers service packages tailored to meet customer requirements to help them reduce their overall vehicle operating costs. These service packages include maintenance and repair contracts, for example, in conjunction with MAN’s proactive maintenance management service, MAN ServiceCare. Active data exchange between vehicles, customers and the MAN service points takes place via the MAN TeleMatics integrated onboard module.
MAN ServiceCare enables operators to schedule maintenance work at the most suitable times, increasing the availability of their vehicles.

Dealers’ commitment to sustainability
“Think Blue.” is the Volkswagen Passenger Cars brand’s ecological sustainability policy. It addresses the question of how individual mobility can be reconciled with sustainable practices, among other things. “Think Blue.” is contributing to the Volkswagen Group’s objective of being the most sustainable automobile manufacturer in the world by 2018.

Integrating “Think Blue.” into our business processes continued apace in 2014. The Volkswagen brand has set itself the goal of reducing CO2 emissions at the Volkswagen dealerships in Germany by 25% by the year 2020. Based on the experiences of German dealers, the global “Think Blue.” dealer initiative has set itself the goal of encouraging over half of all dealers in our focus markets to take part.

The quality of our products and services plays a crucial role in maintaining customer satisfaction across the world. Customers are particularly satisfied and loyal when their expectations of a product or service are met or even exceeded. Reliability, appeal and service determine quality as it is perceived by the customer throughout the entire product experience. Our objective is to surprise and excite our customers in all these areas and thus win them over with our outstanding quality. We continued to improve our high level of quality in 2014, thus contributing to growth and to increasing the value of the Volkswagen Group.

Volkswagen Group’s Quality Assurance consistently focuses on our customers’ wishes and integrates them into product requirements. It also ensures that the company, as the manufacturer, and its products comply with all legal requirements. It defines high

quality targets and standards and monitors compliance with them.
In addition, it identifies the cause of any faults and manages the process for removing them.

Focus on customer wishes
Volkswagen Group’s worldwide growth also presents additional challenges for quality assurance. For example, new vehicle projects in individual regions around the world are subject to the widest variety of customer desires. In light of this, identifying specific regional factors and prioritizing them is an important task so that they can then be reflected appropriately in new products and in the production of established vehicle models. Critical factors include the available fuel quality, road conditions, traffic density, countryspecific usage patterns and not least local legislation. Outside of
Europe, the main focus of Quality Assurance is on conditions in the
BRIC markets.

We mainly use market studies and customer surveys to capture

the wide variety of customer requirements.

Product and supplier quality
In the reporting period, the large number of product start-ups made high demands on Quality Assurance. We maintained the high quality of the previous years for the Group. Our suppliers also made important contributions to this. We expect sustainable practices from them as well as delivering the highest product quality and reliability of supply.

Innovative technologies that are installed in new vehicles must be established in the markets without any problems. This is why
Quality Assurance follows and analyzes these vehicle projects long before customers experience a new product. The aim is to make the product even better and even more reliable, while at the same time successfully implementing as many customer wishes as possible in the new projects and continuing to factor in regional requirements and needs.

In 2014, we continued to standardize our fault removal process, which now enables us to react even faster and better to any vehicle problems – to the benefit of our customers. This increases customer satisfaction and at the same time reduces warranty and ex gratia repair costs for Volkswagen.

Service quality
We also aim to improve the quality of our service offerings worldwide. In 2014, we therefore further optimized the warranty and ex gratia repair instruments. As the direct interface with customers, the dealership operation offers additional starting points: we can identify at an early stage any problems that may be revealed in the emotional moment of vehicle handover and correct them systematically.

Sustainable Value Enhancement

Excellent performance, the success that comes from it and participation in its rewards are at the heart of Volkswagen’s human resources strategy. Our teams must draw on the specialist knowledge and abilities of every member if they are to perform at their peak, create top-quality products and ensure our business success.

As of December 31, 2014, the Volkswagen Group, including the
Chinese joint ventures, employed 592,586 people, 3.5% more than at the end of fiscal year 2013. Significant factors in this increase were the volume-related expansion of the workforce in the growth markets, in particular in China, and the recruitment of specialists and experts in Germany, among other places. Volkswagen AG, Volkswagen Sachsen GmbH, AUDI AG and Volkswagen Financial
Services AG hired a total of 6,926 temporary employees on a permanent basis in 2014. MAN and Porsche took 1,205 temporary employees into their core workforce in Germany.

The ratio of Group employees in Germany to those abroad remained virtually unchanged in the past year. At the 2014 reporting date, 45.7% were employed in Germany.

in percent, as of December 31, 2014

Germany
Germany
Rest of Europe
Rest of Europe
America
America
Africa
Africa
Asia/Australia
Asia/Australia

Vocational group qualifications
Training programs are organized in the Volkswagen Group on the basis of vocational groups. A vocational group includes all employees whose work activities are based on similar technical skills and who need related expertise in order to perform their job.
The vocational group is the home base for employees in a particular specialism, encompassing everyone from vocational trainees, young specialists, trainees, technical specialists, to experts and
Volkswagen’s top experts. Members develop their expertise in these groups by deepening their skills and knowledge and learning from more experienced colleagues.

Dual vocational training
Dual vocational training, where theory and practice are closely interwoven, provides the crucial basis enabling top-performing teams to meet the Volkswagen Group’s high standards of expertise and quality. Vocational education and training are offered based on the expertise required within each vocational group. The vocational group’s own experts pass on the knowledge accumulated in the group to the trainees.

The Volkswagen Group has introduced dual vocational training at many of its international locations in the past few years. As of
December 31, 2014, the Volkswagen Group had trained 18,459 vocational trainees worldwide in approximately 60 trades and 50 dual study programs. Over three-quarters of all the Group’s vocational trainees now learn their trade through dual vocational training.

In October 2014, the Volkswagen Group further extended its collaboration with the Chinese education ministry on vocational training, which began in 2012. In partnership with its Chinese joint ventures FAW-Volkswagen and Shanghai-Volkswagen, Volkswagen will support the development of more teacher training centers, with a view to enhancing vocational training in China. Better qualified teachers and trainers will substantially strengthen vocational trainees’ specialist skills, particularly those required in workplace operations.

On completing their vocational training, our young employees have the basic skills required for their trade. They develop their professional skills further during their first specialist assignment following their training and receive support from more experienced experts. Particularly talented young specialists are supported in talent groups. The highest-achieving 10% of trainees in each year group are admitted to this two-year development and training program.

After completing their vocational training, young people at the start of their career have the opportunity to take part in the
“Wanderjahre” (Years Abroad) program, spending twelve months at one of the Group’s international locations. In the reporting period, development program, including for the first time Sant’Agata
Bolognese (Lamborghini). In 2014, 51 employees from Germany and eleven from six other countries embarked on their Volkswagen
Group Years Abroad program.

Developing university graduates
Volkswagen uses a differentiated approach to support its young academic talent: the Student Talent Bank and the Academic Talent
Pool.

Through the Student Talent Bank, Volkswagen seeks to develop particularly high-achieving students functional and interdisciplinary areas. The aim here is to persuade former interns to join the Company and, by inviting them to specialist lectures, seminars, or visits, for example, to give them the best possible preparation for entry into the world of Volkswagen.

in both

Sustainable Value Enhancement

Talented young high potentials are added to the Academic Talent
Pool just before they complete their degree or doctorate. This puts selected high potentials on the radar screen at the Company, allowing them to be considered for a qualified entry-level position in one of the functional areas.

Volkswagen offers the StartUp Direct trainee program to give graduates the best possible start in the Company. Over a two-year period, participants in the program not only work in their own department and familiarize themselves with the Company, but also attend supplementary training seminars. Alternatively, university graduates interested in working internationally can take part in the
StartUp Cross program; over a period of 18 months, trainees get to know the world of Volkswagen through assignments in a variety of specialist areas along the value chain and, in addition, they broaden their expertise at different Group locations at home and abroad.
Over 3,100 trainees have gained their first experience of Volkswagen in one of these two programs since 2008. In the reporting period alone, Volkswagen AG employed a total of 330 university graduates, around 30% of whom are women.

The Volkswagen Group’s StartUp Europe trainee program has offered young engineers from Southern Europe an opportunity to gain international work experience since 2012. This Volkswagen program is designed to attract international talent and was initially targeted at university graduates from Spain and Portugal. The program was extended to Italy in 2014. The graduates start off in the relevant company abroad before moving to a Group company in
Germany for up to 21 months. They may be offered permanent positions after successful completion of the two-year program – 30 promising young engineers were taken on in 2014.

Professional development, leadership and management programs
The Volkswagen Group Academy offers a broad range of qualification routes for specialists and experts. These include personal development programs to general professional in addition development programs and training within the vocational groups.
The dual training principle is of key importance here because the best way to continue systematically developing throughout a career is by closely combining learning with practical theoretical application.

At the start of 2014, the Volkswagen Passenger Cars, Audi, ŠKODA, SEAT, Porsche and MAN brands agreed uniform personnel standards for the professional development of future executives and managers in the Group.

A large number of the development programs and selection processes for executives, master craftsmen and managers have

already been standardized across all the brands in Germany. The
Volkswagen brand alone offered over 190 training programs leading to qualifications for executives, master craftsmen and managers, as well as assessment centers for prospective managers, in 2014. At an international level, the Volkswagen Group Academy ran a total of approximately 60 training programs for executives, master craftsmen and managers, as well as assessment centers for management. These took place in Poland, the Czech Republic, the
UK, Spain, Portugal, the USA, Argentina, Brazil, South Africa, India, China and Russia.

Professional development at university level
Within the Volkswagen Group Academy, the AutoUni ensures the availability of specialized academic knowledge. Nine institutes work in conjunction with the relevant vocational group academies and partner universities to design development programs for the
Group’s experts and top specialists. In addition, a wide variety of professional development formats are designed in order to disseminate the Group’s internal wealth of knowledge as well as that of university professors and business experts, and to generate new academic insights.

The AutoUni cooperates with

internationally renowned universities, institutes and research centers on a variety of research projects, dissertations and theses. At the end of 2014, more than
500 doctoral students were engaged in research at the various
Volkswagen Group companies in Germany, investigating ambitious, Company-related topics.

The AutoUni also provides advice and support to the Volkswagen Group in identifying suitable academic research and education partners.

Advancement of women, family-friendly HR policies
Volkswagen’s corporate culture places a very high value on both job and family. For Volkswagen, family-friendly human resources policies are a key success factor along the road to becoming one of the world’s leading employers. The Group proposed individual goals to raise the proportion of women at Volkswagen in Germany for the long term as part of a voluntary commitment.

A key instrument is the quota for the university graduates we hire. Volkswagen hires the year’s best university graduates in the necessary fields and takes into account the proportion of female graduates in the relevant subject areas. Averaged across all fields of study relevant to Volkswagen, the individual ratios produce an overall goal of 30% women among the university graduates hired.

Sustainable Value Enhancement

as of December 31, 2014

Total vocational trainees

Industrial vocational trainees

Commercial vocational trainees

Students in traineeship schemes

Total management

Management

Senior management

Top management

* Excluding Scania, MAN and Porsche.

Volkswagen aims to attract female students at an early stage: it uses its Germany-wide Woman DrivING Award and the Woman Experience Day to focus on female engineering and computer science students and graduates, so as to recruit them for technical positions at Volkswagen.

This increased proportion of qualified women joining the
Company will enable us to steadily lift the proportion of female executives in the coming years. The Volkswagen Group is aiming to have 30% women at all levels of the management hierarchy in
Germany in the long term. In line with this, the proportion of women increased there from 9.8% in the previous year to 10.2% in
2014. The first cross-brand Management Mentoring Program, designed to support women on the way to management positions, was launched in the reporting period, with 42 participants from the
Volkswagen Group in Germany.

In addition, Volkswagen intends to raise the proportion of women among its skilled workers and master-level workers in Germany to 10%. In 2014, 25 women at Volkswagen in Germany took part in the master craftswoman mentoring program. Audi also supports and encourages well-qualified women at master and technician levels in their professional development towards executive level.

Volkswagen specifically targets recruitment of talented women by arranging special work experience days for young women in order to increase the proportion of female vocational trainees in the industrial and technical area from 21.8% to 30% in 2014. The aim of these events is to make training in industrial and technical trades more accessible for girls and to support them in their career choices. The Volkswagen Passenger Cars, Audi, Porsche, Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles, MAN and Volkswagen Financial
Services brands have participated in the national “Girls’ Day” in
Germany for years and offered 2,328 schoolgirls in the reporting period a behind-the-scenes look into careers in the automotive industry.

Volkswagen has offered participation the Lower Saxony
Technikum at its locations in Lower Saxony since 2012. Female high school graduates complete an internship in a specialist technical area and attend university lectures in parallel. In the past two years, 88% of the Volkswagen Technikum participants, 45 women in total, have opted to study technical subjects and nine of them are following a dual study program at Volkswagen.

In addition to hiring and supporting talented female employees, Volkswagen is attempting to systematically improve its employees’ work/life balance. For example, Volkswagen offers a high level of working time flexibility, a range of part-time and shift models, and ways of easing the transition back into the workforce for employees on parental leave. Teleworking and the associated use of new IT and communications technologies allow employees to find their own individual work/life balance.

Another step toward becoming a family-friendly company is the constant expansion of a range of childcare options. The Volkswagen
Group’s experience at home and abroad with near-site childcare has been positive – at Volkswagen Financial Services AG or at the
Volkswagen Group of America location in Chattanooga, for example.
Childcare is also available during school vacations at all the Volkswagen Passenger Cars, Audi, Porsche and Volkswagen Commercial
Vehicles locations in Germany.

Performance incentives and bonus arrangements
Systematically encouraging and recognizing achievements and switching to remuneration systems that allow employees to share in the Company’s success for the long term are important components of our human resources strategy. Universal and uniform criteria for skills development and performance evaluation have been in place at Volkswagen AG since 2010. These apply to the entire workforce – from vocational trainees to senior executives. The criteria are underpinned by concrete incentive systems in the remuneration structure.

Volkswagen AG’s employees covered by collective pay agreements have a remuneration system that comprises three key elements:
> basic pay in the form of a competitive monthly salary;
> a performance-related pay component that recognizes the

achievements of each individual employee; and

> the right to a bonus arrangement anchored in the collective pay

agreements.

This three-tier remuneration system has proven its worth as a tool for the workforce to participate in the Company’s success.

At the same time, it helps recognize individual achievements and maintain competitiveness. For this reason, it is increasingly becoming standard practice in the Group – at Audi and ŠKODA, as well as at Volkswagen Group of America’s Chattanooga location and
Volkswagen de México, among other places.

Sustainable Value Enhancement

as of December 31, 2014; in percent

< 20

60 +

Women

Employee participation
Employees can actively help shape the Company by participating in the opinion survey. This uniform, Group-wide employee survey regularly gathers information about employee satisfaction. Following the survey, the results are discussed together by supervisors and employees. Complaints and problems are addressed, as are suggestions on how to better organize work. The measures agreed are then implemented before the next survey. The opinion survey was conducted for the seventh time in 2014. A total of 150 locations and companies in 44 countries were included in the survey. More than 440,000 of the over 490,000 employees invited to participate took part, giving a participation rate of 89% (89%). The sentiment rating is a key parameter for the opinion survey, in addition to the level of employee participation. In 2014, this was 79 (79) out of 100.
The “Volkswagen Way” has been a successful tool for involving
Volkswagen AG’s workforce in improving the Company’s efficiency since 2007. It aims to both increase competitiveness and safeguard employment. A continuous improvement process aimed at achieving continuous process and structure optimization in the areas of productivity and quality, ergonomics, leadership and teamwork helps to ensure these. As in the previous year, a particular focus for the “Volkswagen Way” in the reporting period was on optimizing overarching workflows. In addition to the “Volkswagen Way”, a uniform Group-wide production system is used for all brands during production.

Employees use their creativity, knowledge and initiative to take responsibility for process and product improvement under the
Ideas Management program. Employees in Germany have submitted over two million ideas since 1949 using the former suggestion scheme and today’s Ideas Management program, saving nearly €3.2 billion at the Volkswagen AG and Volkswagen Sachsen
GmbH German locations. Ideas management is an important leadership and motivational instrument for line supervisors. It also contributes to improving health and safety in the Volkswagen workplace and to implementing our targets for reducing energy and water consumption, waste, solvents and CO2 emissions.

Sustainable Value Enhancement

as of December 31, 2014

Ideas suggested

Suggestions implemented

Savings in € million

Bonuses in € million

* 31 (31) participating production locations.

Preventive healthcare and occupational safety
Volkswagen’s holistic healthcare management system extends far beyond traditional preventive healthcare and occupational safety; it also covers aspects of work organization, ergonomics, prevention, integration and rehabilitation, leadership and prospects for all individuals.

The check-ups established as standard at the German locations help to maintain and improve employees’ health, fitness and performance. The check-up is a free, comprehensive medical examination for all employees, who value the high diagnostic quality on offer.
These check-ups have now been introduced successfully at international locations, including Volkswagen in Brazil, Mexico, Argentina and South Africa as well as at the Audi, ŠKODA, SEAT and
MAN brands. The range of preventive and fitness options available following the check-ups was expanded and made more systematic in 2014, and their quality has been enhanced.

Healthy eating concepts and a wide variety of sports and leisure activities – from the weight loss and healthy eating campaign at
Volkswagen in South Africa to internal running events at MAN in
Munich – complement the holistic approach to health management in the Volkswagen Group. A health campaign was launched at
Bentley in 2014 with the aim of promoting healthy lifestyles. The
“BeFit” program consists of four components: Weight and Nutrition, Stress and Sleep, a corporate step challenge (counting steps) and a back pain prevention program, as well as workshops and a targeted intranet campaign.

At the same time, Volkswagen uses improvements along the entire product development process to guarantee that the quality of workplaces and the strains on employees that arise as a result of

production are already taken into account in the planning and design stages of vehicle models. The common objective is to combine ergonomically state-of-the-art workplaces and innovative work processes, using a mix of science and practical experience.
The deployment of occupational assistants on the production lines means that employees are able to receive advice and guidance directly at their workplace about how to implement their workflows more ergonomically.

Using the Group occupational safety management system, all
Group companies covered by it analyzed their existing occupational safety organizations and processes. The results are available throughout the Group in a central database system. This includes the systematic communication of examples of good practice identified in the Volkswagen Group.

Social benefits
Volkswagen AG tops up the benefits provided by social insurance institutions, such as sick pay, and supports dependents when an employee dies. All Volkswagen AG employees are also insured by a group accident insurance policy against accidents resulting in death or disability. Volkswagen AG also grants short-term loans to employees in exceptional cases of economic hardship.

Employees in the Group companies in Germany and abroad enjoy additional benefits. Depending on the location, these include transportation and subsistence allowances, affordable housing, monthly childcare allowances as well as subsidies towards selected leisure activities. Additional preventive healthcare services or supplementary pension insurances round off this offering on a location-specific basis.

Volkswagen AG and its brand companies and subsidiaries operate an occupational pension system, making an important contribution to their employees’ retirement income. In addition to the components funded by the employer, the direct pension commitment offers employees the opportunity to provide for their own retirement income through deferred compensation. Direct insurance is another opportunity for employees to provide for their own retirement income through deferred compensation.

Volkswagen AG’s Time Asset is an instrument that gives staff the opportunity to retire earlier. Since 1998, employees have been able to make contributions from their gross salary and time credits. The accumulated Time Asset credits can be used for paid early retirement.

Sustainable Value Enhancement

as of December 31, 2014

Vocational trainees in the Group

Industrial

Commercial

Passive stage of partial retirement

Group’s active employees

Employees

Europe

America

Africa

Asia

Australia

Percentage of female employees in the Group

Female graduate recruits2 (in %)

Increasing digitization and networking, end-to-end support for business processes and locations continually pose new challenges to the Group’s IT functions. A wellequipped, state-of-the-art infrastructure is essential in order to master them.

the development of new

Ensuring that new developments in the application landscape are implemented efficiently at the corporate locations and incorporated into business processes and the sales network is just as vital.
The IT staff are responsible not only for developing the systems at all of the Volkswagen Group’s brands, but also for supporting users in technical development, production and sales. This is how applications tailored to the exact needs of the users are created.

Volkswagen’s Data Lab is addressing the trend towards digitization. Its core task is to develop prototypes for innovative IT solutions in order to provide users with tailored products and offerings. This entails road-testing new technologies for analyzing large data volumes (big data) and networking vehicles with their environment. The Data Lab’s approach to working is highly networked. It cooperates with the Group’s specialist areas such as sales, as well as with external partners. Research institutes including the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität in Munich and the
German Artificial Intelligence Research Center in Kaiserslautern, together with leading technology companies and start-ups all contribute their knowledge.

The growing convergence of production and IT is opening up new opportunities. Big data processes allow machine faults to be analyzed and corrected at an early stage. Big data makes it possible to analyze and evaluate data volumes that are too vast and too complex to be processed using manual or conventional methods.
Volkswagen’s factory planners can use the “digital factory” to virtually walk through the buildings and test out their plans long before the ground is broken. The Group-wide “Fertigungs-, Informations- und Steuerungssystem” (FIS – Production, Information and Control System) ensures that the right vehicle is built at the right time on the production line. This results in even more efficient, more resource-friendly, even faster production processes.
More and more, customers expect to find innovative communications technology and IT in the Volkswagen Group’s vehicles
– such as networking the vehicle to the occupants’ own devices or to the Internet. Mobile online services, in the new Passat for example, have been greatly extended to meet these customer requirements, setting new standards in their respective vehicle segments.

Data security is a key concern for the Group’s IT function.
Volkswagen therefore insists on the highest security standards when transferring data between vehicles and data centers. In addition, systematic staff training and the use of state-of-the-art technical tools minimize the risk of unauthorized access to sensitive data.

E N (cid:77) I R O N (cid:68) E N T S P E C I A L
On the way to becoming the ecological leader

(cid:69)n (cid:106)(cid:94)(cid:91) (cid:109)(cid:87)(cid:111) (cid:106)o (cid:88)(cid:91)(cid:89)oming
(cid:106)(cid:94)(cid:91) (cid:91)(cid:89)o(cid:98)ogi(cid:89)(cid:87)(cid:98) (cid:98)(cid:91)(cid:87)(cid:90)(cid:91)(cid:104)

The Volkswagen Group’s environmental strategy

Stakeholders have increasingly high expectations of companies, particularly with regard to environmental issues. Global megatrends such as climate change, demand for resources, demographic change and increasing urbanization are all contributing to this trend. The Volkswagen Group also faces these challenges, for example in the form of
(cid:53)

political backing for tougher environmental standards (global legislation on CO2 emissions, for example), analysts’ research reports and investors’ decisions that are increasingly taking into account companies’ environmental and sustainability performance, (cid:53) ever decreasing resources, and
(cid:53)

growing expectations from our business and private customers regarding the environmental features and efficiency of our products.

(cid:53)

With its long history of commitment to protecting the environment, the Volkswagen Group is better equipped than most companies to meet these challenges: The first environmental protection department was established as far back as 1971 and environmental management officers at Volkswagen’s European locations have

G R O U P E N (cid:77) I R O N (cid:68) E N TA L S T R AT E G Y

GROU P EN(cid:77)I RON(cid:68)ENTAL
STR ATEGY
Vision: the Volkswagen
Group will be the leading automotive group in ecological terms by 2018

No. 1 for intelligent mobility

Anchored throughout the Company

No. 1 for lifecycle-wide resource conservation

Leader in environmentally friendly products

(cid:40)(cid:43)(cid:41)

been meeting regularly to discuss topical issues since 1976. Since
1998, the Group has held a succession of conferences on environmental issues with participants from all over the world. As one of the largest automobile manufacturers in the world, we are very aware of our special responsibility and have set ourselves ambitious targets for environmental protection.

The Group environmental strategy, which was adopted by the
Group Board of Management, provides the framework for implementing our vision of also being the automotive industry leader in ecological terms by 2018. Our commitment centers on four key target areas:
(cid:53) Number one for intelligent mobility

The concept of intelligent mobility brings together people’s desire for mobility and comfort, protection of the environment and reducing traffic inefficiencies. The concept is based on the efficient interplay of people, infrastructure, technologies and means of transport.

(cid:53) Number one for resource conservation across the lifecycle

We take account of our products’ environmental footprint across their entire lifecycle. Our central concern in taking this holistic approach is to protect the environment and in particular to conserve finite resources. The steps we have taken focus on efficient product and process design, the use of innovative environmental technologies and sustainable energy supplies.

(cid:53) A leading manufacturer of environmentally friendly products

(cid:53)

Our products combine state-of-the-art technology, comfort and safety, low fuel consumption and lower CO2 emissions with the long-term goal of zero-carbon mobility.
Environmental awareness anchored throughout the Company
The Volkswagen Group’s employees are the driving force behind its environmental strategy. They are well informed, well qualified and operate in an ecologically responsible manner.
Our great strength is that, in exchanging best practice, we pool our employees’ knowledge across brands and regions and leverage this across the entire Group.

E N (cid:77) I R O N (cid:68) E N T S P E C I A L
On the way to becoming the ecological leader

and progress towards achieving goals in specific target areas to the Group Board of Management in its role as the Sustainability
Board – the ultimate sustainability committee. This officer also chairs the Group’s Environment and Energy steering group, which comprises the individuals with responsibility for these issues in all Group divisions, brands and companies as well as the
Group Works Council.

We involve our employees in our environmental strateg y by informing them about their targets and about the related procedures. This is a sizable challenge in a company with more than 590,000 employees and over 100 locations. We are increasingly using online platforms to improve information exchange, to network employees with environmental responsibilities and to support training.

Information events and specific training programs are held for management staff, works council members and environment and energy experts at different Group locations. These training programs also encourage participants to exchange experiences and network. The Group’s environment and energy experts also meet regularly at conferences and in working groups. In order to offer training tailored to employees’ specific workflows, training modules are developed for different areas such as logistics, procurement and production.

We provide training not only for our employees, but also for our suppliers. Through our “sustainability in supplier relationships” concept we ensure that Volkswagen’s environmental targets and measures are also taken into account in the supply chain. For example, we provide a digital training module in nine languages on the Group Business Platform, which we make available to all our suppliers.

Our ecological commitment is already recognized worldwide today. The Group’s top scores in prominent sustainability and environmental rankings also bear this out. However, this is no reason for us to sit back on our laurels; rather it spurs us on to defend and strengthen our leading position and implement our vision of becoming the leading automobile manufacturer in ecological terms too.

(cid:61) U R T H E R I N (cid:61) O R (cid:68) AT I O N O N T H I S T O P I C

www.volkswagenag.com/sustainability

Through our Group environmental strategy, we make sure that environmental factors are increasingly taken into account in our corporate decision making. An organizational structure comprising six modules – product planning and development, suppliers, logistics, production, sales and marketing and recycling – ensures that all business areas along the value chain are included.
The management module entitled “The Company” provides an additional overarching element addressing interconnected issues.

We work together to reduce the environmental impact of our production processes and products. We have set ourselves ambitious targets and identified measures and produced workpackages for every business area. It is extremely important for us to be able to measure the results. We have established Green KPIs
(key performance indicators) for every module, and we use them continually to check on progress towards achieving our targets.

T H E E N (cid:77) I R O N (cid:68) E N TA L S T R AT E G Y (cid:203) S H O L I S T I C A P P R OAC H

(cid:68) AN U (cid:61)ACTU R I NG

USAGE

This modular approach along the entire value chain also helps to ensure that we can track a product’s environmental impact throughout its lifecycle, from production through the usage phase, down to recycling. Our holistic approach means that we begin our analysis in the vehicle development phase, and then calculate the environmental footprint for a product’s entire lifecycle. We are thus able to identify where improvements have the greatest effect and develop targeted innovations.

We have established a clear reporting structure, based on existing responsibilities and reporting mechanisms, to ensure effective and efficient management. The Group officer responsible for environment, energy and new business areas reports at regular intervals on the status of the Group environmental strategy

(cid:40)(cid:43)(cid:42)

Sustainable Value Enhancement

We aim to be the leading automotive company in ecological terms as well by 2018. To help us achieve this goal, we agreed our Group environmental strategy encompassing all of our environmental protection activities at the end of 2013.

The modular structure of this Group environmental strategy focuses on our value chain and involves all business areas. We have established ambitious, measurable targets in these areas and are pursuing them systematically. This includes reducing CO2 emissions from our European new car fleet to 95 g CO2/km by 2020 as well as designing each new model generation to be 10 to 15% more efficient than its aiming to place us at the forefront of creating environmentally friendly products.

Another target area in our environmental strategy specifies that we are further extending our efforts to conserve resources across the entire lifecycle of our products. We plan to reduce CO2 emissions, energy consumption, water consumption, waste for disposal and organic solvents in the production process. By 2018, we aim to have reduced these five key environmental indicators for every vehicle produced throughout all of the Group’s locations by 25% when compared with 2010. The charts on page 146 show clearly that we have already made considerable progress towards reducing all five of these key indicators, which are measured in accordance with the internal VW standard 98.000 in force across the whole
Group.

We have also established environmental targets for the logistics, sales and marketing areas. Beginning in the reporting period, Volkswagen has been a member of the Clean Shipping Network, an association of marine cargo owners, and is represented on its management board. We will use the Clean Shipping Index in future as an assessment tool to analyze and reduce the environmental impact of marine shipments. We are also successively involving our dealerships in reducing emissions. For example, in 2014 Porsche launched a sustainability initiative to support its dealerships, with a view to improving energy efficiency in existing Porsche centers and designing new centers to be as efficient as possible.

The concept of “intelligent mobility” in the environmental strategy addresses future mobility solutions. This is where our drive to reduce inefficiencies, satisfy our customers’ mobility and comfort requirements and promote environmental protection all comes together. The concept is based on the efficient interplay of people, infrastructure, technologies and means of transport.

In light of the global trend towards urbanization, for example, vehicle noise reduction is also increasingly becoming a priority. We are not only developing ever quieter vehicles; we are also committed to reducing overall traffic noise. We therefore developed a noise level tool in collaboration with the prominent firm of
Lärmkontor GmbH, Hamburg. The tool measures noise pollution in particular and illustrates how much noise is “perceived” by how many of the city’s inhabitants – depending on the noise reduction measures selected.

Anchoring environmental aspects firmly within our organizational and decision-making processes is essential to achieving our ambitious targets. The Group’s environmental management system has been in place for many years and provides the basis for ensuring that these aspects are taken into account. The Group’s environmental policy is a key component of this. It is based on the
Group’s environmental principles that are in force worldwide. The environmental targets for technical development are also firmly anchored in the environmental management system. We make sure that these processes are regularly confirmed by submitting them to certification procedures and external audits, including in the current reporting year. An energy management system that was introduced successively into all locations from 2010 has been awarded ISO 50001 certification since 2012. In addition, Volkswagen’s German locations have voluntarily participated in the
European Union’s Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) since 1995. We have taken part in a growing number of environmental certification schemes since then, with the result that our locations worldwide as well as technical development have received certification under international standard ISO 14001, and additionally under ISO/TR 14062 since 2009.

The fact that environmental issues are firmly anchored within the Group is also reflected in the way that ecological aspects feature in all our employees’ thinking and actions – another target field in our environmental strategy. We pool and make use of all our employees’ skills and expertise in the area of environmental protection across brands and regions. Making sure that employees are well informed and attain qualifications is an important condition.
For this reason, we employ environmental and energy management officers around the world, who help to build a broad basis for environmental protection within the Group.

Intelligent mobility
Mobility, like energy, is a key condition for economic growth and sustainable development. As the global population increases and at the same time more and more people enter the middle classes, demand for mobility will also keep on growing in the future. The challenge will be to meet growing this demand despite the everdecreasing availability of resources. Mobility must therefore be designed to increase efficiency and minimize waste, but at the same time we must not lose sight of other crucial aspects such as safety, access to mobility, or air quality. The solution must surely be to combine efficiency, resource conservation and individual transportation pleasure.

This applies not only to energy use but also importantly to the space required for mobility, especially in urban areas. The continuing trend towards urbanization means that more and more people live in places with limited space available for infrastructure.
Given the wide variety of mobility needs and local conditions, one possible solution alone will not be enough. Volkswagen is therefore

Sustainable Value Enhancement

working on a variety of approaches, from innovative vehicle concepts right through to research into innovative urban developments such as Micro-City. However, these solutions can only be fully effective if they are networked together at the right time and in the right place. They require the efficient interplay of people, infrastructure, technologies and means of transport. Volkswagen calls this “intelligent mobility”. Volkswagen has been addressing this issue in related research projects for over 20 years. In addition to analyzing traffic and mobility developments, the work focuses on specialist strategic advice – both within the Group and in open discussions with external stakeholders.

Volkswagen is currently working on concepts and concrete solutions with 14 other companies from different sectors in six cities across the world within the framework of the World Business
Council for Sustainable Development’s Sustainable Mobility
Project 2.0 to develop pragmatic approaches to the challenges posed by sustainable mobility.

Another current discussion platform is "Urban Mobility 2030", a film showing effective traffic solutions in their relevant context from both a traffic management and the individual user’s perspective.

The third aspect of our mobility research is the trialing of
“demonstrators”. One example is the digital “Intersection Pilot” used in the UR:BAN (Urban Space: User oriented assistance systems and network management) research project funded by the German federal government, which uses intelligent traffic lights to improve traffic flow at intersections. It has already proven to be effective in trials during the reporting period.

Modern information and communications technology plays a key role in intelligent mobility. Having more comprehensive information available at all levels makes for more efficient planning, decision making and driving. This applies to the information exchange between traffic lights and vehicles, for example when the
“Intersection Pilot” improves traffic flows at intersections, just as much as to the provision of up-to-the-minute information on alternative routes, and is equally useful to the organizations that operate or plan transportation systems and infrastructure projects.
Another key technology, automated driving, will open the way for a wide variety of new solutions that will make a difference to both stationary and moving traffic.

Climate protection
Climate protection presents one of the greatest challenges to our society. Volkswagen Group, with over 100 locations across the world and producing more than 10 million vehicles in 2014, has a particular responsibility in this area. Our Group environmental strategy enables us to meet this challenge. It applies not only to the products and manufacturing processes in our own production

facilities, but also throughout the supply chain, logistics processes and recycling initiatives – in other words, to the entire lifecycle of our products.

We take account of climate change and the resulting risks and opportunities in all of our strategic decisions. To achieve this, we have established committees such as the CSR & Sustainability
Steering Group, the Environment & Energy Steering Group and the
Group CO2 Steering Group. A key instrument for us is the “CO2
Registry” management and analysis tool, for example, that enables us to analyze every one of the Group’s vehicle projects over the entire vehicles lifecycle with regard to their CO2 emissions. The savings derived from our
Registry is based on the targets for CO2
Group environmental strategy.

Strategy development in the area of climate protection is prepared and supported by technical discussions with international scientific experts (for example, representatives of the International
Energy Agency) and other stakeholders (for example, the World
Business Council for Sustainable Development).

Water management
Water is not just a means of subsistence, but also a means of production and a source of energy. In automobile production, it is impossible to avoid using water – in washing processes in mechanical manufacturing or for cooling, for example. Volkswagen is aware of its responsibility and uses this valuable resource with care. This is also laid down in the Group’s environmental principles: three of the
22 environmental principles for production relate directly to the issue of water.

Water was a top priority issue for the Volkswagen Group in 2014.
The Group environmental strategy forms the basis for ensuring that fresh water consumption is taken into account across a vehicle’s entire lifecycle. For example, we started by prioritizing the Group’s locations according to the importance of water to their production processes. This involved checking whether they were located in areas at risk of water scarcity and how secure their water supply was.
The aim is to identify measures to help increase the security of supply for a production facility and its surrounding area. This includes on-site measures, such as water-conservation processes, for example, as well as external projects, such as reforestation to boost groundwater regeneration or the renaturation of river courses. The fact that water consumption throughout the Group has fallen by 6.9% per vehicle produced since 2010 testifies to the success of these activities. Water was also the key issue in 2014 for the “Think Blue.Factory.” initiative. Among other brands, the
Volkswagen Passenger Cars brand made a substantial contribution to reducing water consumption, as shown in the following examples.

Sustainable Value Enhancement

in kilowatt hours per vehicle

in kilograms per vehicle

in kilograms per vehicle

in kilograms per vehicle

in cubic meters per vehicle

Prior-year figures adjusted.

At the Osnabrück facility we have reduced our environmental footprint by using waste water and saving fresh water. Instead of replacing water lost through evaporation during spray painting washout with fresh water as we used to do, we now make up the evaporation loss with the waste water from the pretreatment plant.
This measure reduces the paint shop’s water consumption by approximately 160 liters for every vehicle produced.

The MAN production facility in Munich uses water from its own well to cool production areas and buildings. By managing and finetuning operations to use water only as needed, the amount of water needed for cooling was reduced by some 300,000 m³ in 2014. This also results in a saving of around 9,000 kWh of electricity to operate the water cooling pumps.

At the Curitiba production facility in Brazil, a simple technical solution enables us to save 18,000 m³ of water a year – the factory’s sprinkler systems have to be tested regularly. As of this reporting period, pipes and storage containers are now used to collect the water that previously went to waste and it is then used in cooling processes.

In addition to process optimization, a strong network for the people charged with this responsibility is an important condition for identifying improvement opportunities and making greater savings. That is why we held a two-week workshop for representatives of Shanghai-Volkswagen, Volkswagen Group China and the
Group’s environmental department in July 2014, which included visits to several Group locations to look at water management, among other things.

Sustainable Value Enhancement

Lifecycle assessment
Cutting fuel consumption, and the resulting reduction in emissions, are important measures towards improving the environmental performance of our vehicles. However, these on their own do not reduce a car’s environmental impact to a minimum. After all, this does not begin when it starts being driven by the customer. The materials and components must first be manufactured and the raw materials produced – and this long before the wheels of a new car turn for the first time.

In order to reduce the environmental impact of a vehicle, the entire product lifecycle is taken into consideration when vehicles are being developed. This means that the assessment of new vehicles, components and materials begins before they are even produced: from the first idea and design sketches, through production and the subsequent usage phase, to recycling.

Volkswagen produces lifecycle assessments – or environmental impact studies – in accordance with ISO standards 14040 and
14044 to achieve this. Using these, we determine where improvements have the greatest effect and develop innovations that target these points directly. We call this approach lifecycle engineering.

We keep our customers, shareholders and other interested groups informed about the success stories of our environmentally responsible vehicle development and lifecycle assessments. The
Volkswagen Passenger Cars brand uses the term “environmental ratings” when it publishes the ecological advances in new vehicle models compared with their immediate predecessors, while Audi publishes this under the heading of “environmental footprint”. For the communication to be credible, it is important that the results and evaluations meet internationally recognized quality standards and are transparent, comparable and understandable. In order to ensure this, the results of the lifecycle assessments are reviewed, confirmed and certified by independent experts, in accordance with the requirements of ISO 14040.

Recycling
Recycling plays a major part in conserving resources. Using recycled materials eliminates the production and manufacturing costs for new raw materials. Recycling is an integral part of vehicle development at Volkswagen, which means that new Volkswagen vehicles can be 85% recycled and 95% re-used. In order to realize the economic potential of this resource after a long vehicle life, Volkswagen is involved in developing state-of-the-art technologies for recycling older vehicles and their parts. Other examples in addition to the patented, award-winning VW-SiCon process for the treatment of shredder residues are the LithoRec (lithium-ion battery recycling) and ElmoReL (electric vehicle recycling – key components in power electronics) research projects into recycling components from electric vehicles.

Other examples that combine ecological benefits with economic utility include the use of recycled materials in new vehicles as

well as the manufacture of reconditioned exchange parts. New vehicles from the Volkswagen Passenger Cars brand, such as the new Passat, currently consist of about one-third recycled materials.
Volkswagen Passenger Cars brand’s Genuine Exchange Parts program is continually being expanded. In the first six months of
2014 alone, nearly 500 new exchange part numbers were added to the program. The catalog including the acceptance criteria for returns, is now available in 22 languages. The advantage to the customer is that genuine exchange parts offer the same quality, functionality and warranty but are on average 40% cheaper than the corresponding new parts. The program benefits both customers and the environment: remanufacturing engines alone saves around
7,000 tonnes of steel every year. Our experience with remanufacturing dual clutches shows that mechanical wear and tear in many components is much less than in earlier manual gear units.
This means that many more components can be re-used – cutting
CO2 emissions and at the same time delivering economic benefits to customers.

Biodiversity
Biodiversity means the variety of life on our planet, and covers the variety of species, the genetic differences within species and the diversity of ecosystems. We rely on it as the basis for our continued existence: healthy food, clean water, fertile soils and a balanced climate. Maintaining biological diversity is one of the greatest challenges of our time. The United Nations has therefore declared the current decade to be the "UN Decade on Biodiversity".

Volkswagen has pursued the goal of protecting biodiversity since 2007. In a mission statement, Volkswagen has committed to support the protection of species at all of its locations. The Group makes its contribution to protecting biological diversity above all through its commitment to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and increasing the efficiency of materials and resources.

As a founding member of the Biodiversity in Good Company e.V.
initiative, Volkswagen has also committed to setting up a biodiversity management system and to helping achieve the targets established by the Convention on Biological Diversity. To ensure that this responsibility is met, Volkswagen has appointed a biodiversity officer and defined the protection of biological diversity within its environmental management system. At a total of 32 sites for the Volkswagen Passenger Cars, Porsche and MAN brands, we worked with an insurance company to prepare studies outlining production-related risks to biological diversity. Volkswagen supports networking between the various players in the fields of business, politics, society and academia, with a view to increasing public awareness of biodiversity conservation and to increase knowledge about the issue. Volkswagen was again represented on the management board of the Biodiversity in Good Company e.V. in
2014 and was involved in managing the wide variety of activities undertaken at national and international level.

Sustainable Value Enhancement

We are continuing our cooperation with the Nature and Biodiversity
Conservation Union (NABU), the main environmental organization with the largest membership in Germany. One of the projects we established jointly was the German Moor Conservation Fund, funded by Volkswagen Financial Services to the tune of €1.6 million, which has already sponsored 13 moor rewatering projects.
As carbon sinks, moors play an important role in climate protection.
This commitment was designated as an official project in the "United
Nations Decade on Biodiversity" in 2014. As a partner in nature conservation, Volkswagen also supported NABU’s renaturation of the Lower Havel river. More than 1,000 animal and plant species are threatened with extinction in this, inland Central Europe’s largest and most important wetland area. Volkswagen and NABU also worked together on their joint “Willkommen Wolf!” wolf conservation initiative in 2014. This project aims to increase acceptance of this wild animal and support its return to Germany, where it was once hunted to extinction.

The Volkswagen Group supports nature conservation and the protection of species diversity at its international locations – and further afield. One new addition to the list of projects already up and running is the initiative launched in 2014 at our Urumqi location in the Chinese province of Xinjiang. Volkswagen is sponsoring research into biodiversity in the area around the Tarim River.
The “Think Blue.Nature.” conservation and species protection project in Mexico was also launched in April 2014. This project is located in a biodiversity corridor in the eastern Sierra Madre that extends over four million hectares and is home to around 650 endangered species. Volkswagen de México is also the country’s largest private sponsor of biodiversity research (“Por amor al planeta”).

External environmental awards
The Volkswagen Group and its brands received numerous awards for environmental protection and sustainability projects in 2014.
Here are some examples:

Not one, but two cars in the Volkswagen Passenger Cars brand received the accolade of “most environmentally friendly vehicles” in all classes in 2014 from AUTOTEST, the magazine for car buyers published by AUTO BILD, and ÖKOTREND, the independent environmental research institute. The eco up! took first place in the small car category and the Passat 1.4 TSI EcoFuel was the winner in the upper midsize category. Fuel consumption and CO2 emissions were not the only deciding factors – the jury also took account of the
Company’s environmental impact and its ecological and social responsibility efforts.

The “Green Truck 2014” award from specialist journals “VerkehrsRundschau” and “Trucker” went to the Scania G 410 with
Euro 6 technology in March 2014. As the best performer in terms of consumption and emissions, the G 410 headed the environmental ranking by a large margin.

The MAN Lion's City GL CNG received the “Bus of the Year 2015” award in the Bus Euro Test. The low-pollution, climate-friendly

articulated bus with Euro 6 technology impressed the jury of
European trade journalists. Fueled by biogas or e-gas, operation of the bus is close to carbon neutral. The vehicle concept also contributed to its high rating: as the only five-door on the market, it ensures optimal passenger flow and short stop times.

In April 2014, Audi received a DEKRA report on the calculation of its carbon footprint, which was certified in accordance with ISO
14064. The report confirmed the emissions calculated for the entire lifecycle of its models. Audi can use the carbon footprint to make its company-wide greenhouse gas emissions more transparent and subsequently analyze them more accurately and reduce them.

The Volkswagen Group received the “Gold Medal Award 2013 for Sustainable Development” in May 2014. The non-profit World
Environmental Center recognized Volkswagen’s achievements in sustainable development and environmentally-conscious business practices with the prize. The jury highlighted the Volkswagen
Group’s understanding of sustainability as a strategic goal and its exemplary implementation.

Audi was voted the most sustainable company in the “Sustainability Image Score” sustainability rankings produced by consultancy Facit Research. The annual study is based on a survey of
German consumers. In 2014, a representative sample of more than
8,000 consumers rated 104 companies in 16 industries. Audi led the rankings in all three aspects of sustainability – economic, environmental and social.

The Volkswagen Passenger Cars brand was also acknowledged for its holistic economic, environmental and social responsibility, receiving the “Nachhaltigkeitspreis 2014” (Sustainability Prize
2014) with a “Gold” rating. The Germany-wide survey was conducted by “DEUTSCHLAND TEST”, “FOCUS MONEY” and consultants Faktenkontor. Volkswagen Passenger Cars received the highest rating of 37 automobile brands. It scored particularly highly for economic responsibility, meaning the brand’s commitment to economic success and hence stable employment.

Volkswagen Passenger Cars' “Think Blue. Factory.” environmental program won the “National Energy Globe Award Germany” in July 2014. The careful use of resources in production was one of the key factors in the program being voted the country's best environmental project. The prize has been awarded annually to regional, national and international environmental projects under the auspices of the Energy Globe Foundation since 1999.

The Volkswagen Group received the 2014 policy award in the
Corporate Social Responsibility category for its strategic partnership with the Nature and Biodiversity Conservation Union (NABU).
The politik & kommunikation magazine awards the prize each year for the best political, public and social campaigns and innovations.

Sustainable Value Enhancement

Conventional electricity

Conventional fuels

Carbon-neutral electricity

Carbon-neutral fuels

(liquid, gaseous)

Fuel cell

Battery power

Plug-in hybrid

Hybrid drive

Combustion engine

Carbonneutral

sustainable mobility

Fuel and drivetrain strategy
It is expected that, by 2018, 90% of the Volkswagen Group’s vehicles will be sold in markets that have statutory limits on new vehicle fleet greenhouse gas emissions. Meeting this ambitious target will require significant funding for measures to reduce CO2 emissions in conventional drive systems and for the development of electric vehicles. The Volkswagen Group invested €11.5 billion in research and development in the past year. The majority of this was spent on green technologies, a major long-term investment that is already bearing fruit: the Group’s new vehicle fleet in the EU emitted an average of approximately 126 grams of CO2 per kilometer in 2014, meaning that we are already under the 2015
European limit of 130 grams of CO2 per kilometer.

irrespective of whether

The Volkswagen Group’s fuel and drivetrain strategy is paving the way for carbon-neutral, sustainable mobility. We are pursuing the goal of increasing drive system efficiency with each new model generation, these are powered by combustion engines, hybrids, plug-in hybrids, pure electric drives, or potential future fuel cell drive systems. All of our mobility concepts are tailored to our customers and their increasingly personalized mobility requirements. This will expand the portfolio of different drive systems and will also lead to a future situation where traditional drive systems coexist side-by-side with e-mobility.

The Modular Transverse Toolkit (MQB) is already designed so that the full range of drive systems can be deployed and flexibly mounted at product lines across our global locations – bumper to bumper.

From today’s perspective, the combustion engine looks set to serve as the broad basis for drive technology in the coming years.
This is particularly true for potential growth markets such as Russia, India and the Far East. Given the need to use resources responsibly, it is therefore crucial to further optimize combustion engines. Our new generations of petrol and diesel engines satisfy this requirement. When it comes to vehicles with conventional drive systems, we have significantly reduced average fuel consumption.
The primary contributing factors here were the introduction of
BlueMotion Technology in our TDI and TSI engines, engine management and our innovative direct shift gearboxes (DSGs), lightweight construction and aerodynamic design.

www.volkswagenag.com/sustainability

Sustainable Value Enhancement

Natural gas engines play a key role in the drivetrain portfolio. As a rule, they emit around 25% less CO2 than petrol engines due to the fuel’s chemical properties, something experienced by customers who are driving our natural gas vehicles such as the eco up!, Golf TGI, or Audi A3 g-tron. Natural gas is also being used as an economical and clean drive system for heavy commercial vehicles.
Liquefied natural gas (LNG) must replace compressed natural gas
(CNG) for these engines to be used in long-distance trucks and buses, since this is the only way of achieving the required energy density and thus the desired range. Better infrastructure is needed for natural gas to be widely used as a fuel. For example, fuel station networks have only been sufficiently developed in certain countries.
We are expanding our traditional range of engines through drivetrain electrification. The number of drivers travelling predominantly short distances is growing. These include commuters and residents of cities, but also delivery vehicles in urban areas. The population shift towards urban areas is continuing, and by no means is this limited to just the burgeoning megacities of Asia and
South America. Pure-play electric vehicles like the e-up! and e-Golf are emission-free when driven locally, and are thus of particular interest to customers whose everyday driving covers short distances.
Opportunities to charge batteries privately – e.g. using a charging station installed at a customer’s location – must be supplemented by a good public recharging infrastructure in the medium to long term.
However, the majority of customer also want to take their vehicles on longer journeys in addition to driving short distances.
Hybrid vehicles, in particular plug-in hybrids, combine highly efficient combustion engines with zero-emission electric motors.
Where this combination of drive concepts is concerned, Volkswagen sees an opportunity to offer electrified models for short- and long-distance driving to customers of a wide range of vehicle

classes, to build trust in the new technologies, and thus to help e-mobility gain acceptance. We have been offering hybrid versions in a range of vehicle classes for several years. In 2013, we launched the first plug-in hybrid-drive vehicles onto the market – the Porsche
Panamera S E-Hybrid, the Porsche 918 Spyder and the limited run
XL1. With the launch of the Golf GTE, the Audi A3 Sportback e-tron and the Passat GTE in the reporting period, we unveiled the first plug-in hybrids to be based on the MQB.

The modular toolkit strategy is one of the Volkswagen Group’s key advantages. We are not just realizing substantial synergies through implementing the modular toolkit, we have also designed the vehicle architecture so that all drive system types can be integrated flexibly and economically. This is particularly true of the
MQB-based vehicles, i.e. the upcoming Polo through the Audi A3 down to the Passat. For example, these models can draw on a standardized plug-in hybrid system comprising a highly efficient
TSI engine, an electric motor, our compact six-speed direct shift gearbox and a lithium-ion battery. We have integrated the production of electrified vehicles into the manufacturing processes at our existing plants, e.g. in Wolfsburg, Ingolstadt and Leipzig.

The battery is the heart of an electric vehicle and its storage capacity is the deciding factor in determining the vehicle’s range.
The technology currently used in pure electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles uses lithium-ion cells. We assemble these into battery systems at our plant in Braunschweig. Work is currently ongoing to develop solid electrolyte-based battery types with a higher energy density, which will also meet higher safety standards. The industrial application of this technology is currently being reviewed. The next generation of electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles will be fitted with improved lithium-ion technology. Electric motors are manufactured at our plant in Kassel.

Sustainable Value Enhancement

Hydrogen will not be widely available as a fuel in the medium term.
In contrast to natural gas, adequate distribution infrastructure is not yet available. Both hydrogen filling stations and renewable hydrogen production plants have to be constructed from scratch.
Volkswagen has been working on fuel cell technologies for over 15 years and has gained extensive experience operating a test fleet. The
MQB has already been adapted for fuel cells, as demonstrated by the Golf Variant HyMotion concept car launched at the Los Angeles
Auto Show 2014. The decision on whether to proceed to series production will depend on market requirements and infrastructure.
Thanks to our conventional and alternative technologies and the modular toolkit strategy, which allows innovations to be incorporated rapidly into different vehicles, we are optimally positioned to meet the challenges that the future will bring. We have expanded our expertise in electric traction with the help of additional technical specialists and experts, and have provided our employees with training on the new technology via a major training program.

The automotive industry is facing the greatest upheavals in its history. Alternative drive systems, the digitization of the entire value chain and rapidly changing global customer expectations of mobility will shape the coming years. In response, the Volkswagen

Group has launched the “Future Tracks” program: we are developing solutions for the fundamental upheavals and challenges at
Board of Management and senior executive level. “Future Tracks” brings together all topics, activities and measures that we are deploying now and will be deploying in the coming years to prepare for the major issues of the future – across all brands and regions and throughout the entire Group.

From a technical viewpoint, our work focuses on drive technologies, digitization and the networking of products and production. Added to this are new requirements for individual mobility and mobility-related services. Our efforts aim to ensure that the Volkswagen Group takes a leading role in shaping and influencing the new world of mobility.

A solid commercial basis is essential to be able to tackle these challenges successfully. For this reason, “Future Tracks” has been introduced not only as a forward-looking program – it also focuses on efficiency. Our intention is to continue to grow profitably, ensuring that we are always in the position to invest in the future of the Volkswagen Group. We are thus creating the foundations to shape the automotive transition and to ensure long-term success.

There were no significant events after the end of fiscal year 2014.

Report on Expected Developments

Report on Expected
Developments

The global economy is expected to continue its growth trajectory in 2015, still driven by the rapidly growing emerging markets of Asia in particular. Many automotive markets are also slated to expand further in 2015. The Volkswagen Group intends to capitalize on this trend by building on the strength of its brand diversity, pioneering technologies and global presence.

Germany
We are confident that Germany’s solid economic development will be sustained in 2015 at the prior-year level with stable growth rates.
The situation in the labor market is also expected to remain positive.

North America
We expect economic activity in North America to continue to pick up in 2015, with economic growth in the USA and Mexico gathering momentum compared with the prior year.

South America
In Brazil, we anticipate that GDP growth will recover somewhat in
2015 compared with the previous year. Argentina’s economy may contract further in 2015 on account of the persistently high inflation and the muted business climate.

Asia-Pacific
Economic growth in China is set to remain at a high level in 2015.
We expect a year-on-year improvement in Japan’s GDP growth in
2015. In India, we estimate that following a recent slight improvement the pace of expansion will stabilize at around the
2014 level. Economic growth in the ASEAN region is set to see a slight improvement in 2015 compared with the previous year.

In the following, we describe the expected development of the
Volkswagen Group and the general framework for its business activities. Risks and opportunities that could represent a departure from the forecast trends are presented in the Report on Risks and
Opportunities.

Our assumptions are based on current estimates by third-party institutions. These include economic research institutes, banks, multinational organizations and consulting firms.

In our plans, we assume that the global economy will grow slightly faster in 2015 than in the reporting period. We anticipate that the emerging economies of Asia will record the highest growth rates.
We expect to see signs of recovery in the economies of the major industrialized nations, though the rates of expansion will remain moderate.

We believe that the global economy will continue growing in the

period 2016 to 2019.

Europe/Other markets
In Western Europe, the economic recovery is expected to continue in 2015. However, the upturn remains contingent on structural problems being resolved.

The situation of the economies in Central and Eastern Europe should remain stable, depending on how the conflict between
Russia and Ukraine evolves. We expect clearly negative growth in the Russian economy in 2015.

In 2015, the South African economy will probably continue to suffer the effects of political uncertainty and social tensions resulting primarily from high unemployment levels, though the pace of growth should nevertheless accelerate somewhat once again there.

Report on Expected Developments

In 2015, we expect to see mixed trends in the passenger car markets in the individual regions. Overall, the increase in global demand for new vehicles will probably be slower than in the reporting period.

The Volkswagen Group is ideally positioned to deal with the mixed developments in the global automotive markets. Our broad, steadily growing product range featuring the latest generation of consumption-optimized engines as well as a variety of alternative drives gives us a global competitive edge. We are pursuing the goal of offering all customers the mobility and innovation they need, sustainably strengthening our competitive position in the process.

We estimate that demand for passenger cars worldwide will

continue to increase in the period 2016 to 2019.

Europe/Other markets
In Western Europe, we are predicting a slight increase in demand for automobiles in 2015 after the downtrend came to an end in the reporting period and growth was recorded for the first time in the wake of four years of decline. Pre-crisis levels are not expected to be reached in the medium term, however. The ongoing debt crisis will further unsettle consumers in many countries in the region and restrict their financial opportunities to buy new cars. In Spain and
Italy, the recovery will probably continue at a modest pace, while in the United Kingdom we anticipate that the market volume will be just below the high level seen in the reporting period. In France, we are forecasting stronger growth than in 2014 thanks to a state subsidy for scrapping used diesel cars that will apply from 2015.

In Central and Eastern European markets, demand for passenger cars in 2015 is likely to be down considerably year-onyear, mainly due to the Russian market, which is slated to fall short of the prior-year level as a result of the political crisis. By contrast, we expect to see further growth or volumes remaining at the previous year’s level in many Central European markets.

After a weak 2014, we are projecting that the volume of the
South African automotive market will remain level with the previous year in 2015.

Germany
In the reporting period, the German automobile market curbed its downward trend and recorded growth. We expect demand to edge up in 2015 provided the economic conditions do not deteriorate.

North America
In 2015, we expect that the market for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles (up to 6.35 t) in the USA will benefit from the situation in the labor market and attractive financing conditions, and that the positive trend seen in the past year will endure, albeit at a noticeably weaker pace. The SUV segment will drive growth. In the

Canadian market, demand is likely to be slightly below the previous year’s high level, and in Mexico we also anticipate a slight uptrend.

economy.

increasingly

Furthermore,

South America
Owing to their dependence on demand for raw materials, the South
American markets are heavily influenced by developments in the protectionist global tendencies are adversely affecting the performance of the region’s vehicle markets, especially in Brazil and Argentina, which have imposed restrictions on vehicle imports. Passenger car sales in
South America will probably fall substantially short of the prior-year level. In Brazil, the largest market in South America, we are forecasting that the market volume in 2015 will be significantly lower than in the previous year. Following the market slump in
2014, we anticipate that demand in the Argentinian market will continue to taper off markedly in view of the persistently high inflation and the challenging macroeconomic situation.

Asia-Pacific
The passenger car markets in the Asia-Pacific region look set to continue their growth trajectory in 2015, though at a slower pace.
In China, the steady increase in demand for individual mobility will push up demand, albeit with less momentum. We expect the
Japanese passenger car market, which moderately exceeded the previous year’s volume in 2014, to record a significant drop in 2015, primarily as a result of tax breaks expiring. In the Indian passenger car market, we anticipate a slightly higher volume in 2015 than in the previous year.

After a sizeable slump in demand in Thailand’s passenger car market in the reporting period dragged down passenger car sales in the ASEAN region overall, we anticipate positive growth rates in
2015 for the markets in the ASEAN region.

The markets for light commercial vehicles will also see mixed trends in the individual regions in 2015. Overall, we envisage slight growth in demand, which is likely to continue in the period 2016 to

In light of the sustained economic stabilization expected in
2015, we should see modest growth in the markets for light commercial vehicles in many countries in Western Europe. We anticipate that sales in Germany will be on a level with the previous year.
In the Central and Eastern European markets, sales of light commercial vehicles in 2015 will probably be on a level with the previous year. In Russia, we anticipate a further decrease in the market volume in 2015.

In North America, light commercial vehicles up to 6.35 tonnes

are allocated to the passenger car market.